src/content/examples/en/02_Animation_And_Variables/03_Conditions/description.mdx, before:

---
featuredImage: "../../../images/featured/02_Animation_And_Variables-03_Conditions-thumbnail.png"
title: Conditions
oneLineDescription: Use if and else statements to make decisions while your sketch runs.
---

If and else statements allow a
<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/block" target="_blank">block of code</a>
to run only when a certain condition is true. This example only
animates when the mouse is held down. This is because of the if
statement on line 59. You can read more about if and else statements
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/if-else">in the p5 reference</a>
or <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/conditionals" target="_blank">on MDN</a>.

Comparison operators help to form conditions by comparing two
values. In this example, the hue of the circle resets to zero when
the hue is at least 360 because of the if statement on line 69.
You can read more about comparison operators
<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators#relational_operators" target="_blank">on MDN</a>.

Logical operators allow conditions to be combined.
<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Logical_AND" target="_blank">&amp;$amp;</a>
checks that both conditions are true. The circle in this example
has a black fill when it is toward the horizontal center of the canvas, and it
has a white fill when it is not. This is because of the if statement on line
45, which checks that the circle's x position is at least 100 and also
no more than 300.
<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Logical_OR" target="_blank">||</a>
checks that at least one of the conditions is true. The circle reverses horizontal
speed when it reaches the left or right edge of the canvas because of the if statement
on line 75.

Commit message:

Add attribution placeholders in example descriptions

src/content/examples/en/02_Animation_And_Variables/03_Conditions/description.mdx, after:

---
featuredImage: "../../../images/featured/02_Animation_And_Variables-03_Conditions-thumbnail.png"
title: Conditions
oneLineDescription: Use if and else statements to make decisions while your sketch runs.
---

If and else statements allow a
<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/block" target="_blank">block of code</a>
to run only when a certain condition is true. This example only
animates when the mouse is held down. This is because of the if
statement on line 59. You can read more about if and else statements
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/if-else">in the p5 reference</a>
or <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/conditionals" target="_blank">on MDN</a>.

Comparison operators help to form conditions by comparing two
values. In this example, the hue of the circle resets to zero when
the hue is at least 360 because of the if statement on line 69.
You can read more about comparison operators
<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators#relational_operators" target="_blank">on MDN</a>.

Logical operators allow conditions to be combined.
<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Logical_AND" target="_blank">&amp;$amp;</a>
checks that both conditions are true. The circle in this example
has a black fill when it is toward the horizontal center of the canvas, and it
has a white fill when it is not. This is because of the if statement on line
45, which checks that the circle's x position is at least 100 and also
no more than 300.
<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Logical_OR" target="_blank">||</a>
checks that at least one of the conditions is true. The circle reverses horizontal
speed when it reaches the left or right edge of the canvas because of the if statement
on line 75.

Contributors from the p5 community wrote this example. Soon their names will 
appear here. In the meantime, you can 
<a 
href="https://github.com/processing/p5.js-website/blame/d6b28924185dac5e25c39cd0fc2fc4a1f6392883/src/content/examples/en/02_Animation_And_Variables/03_Conditions/code.js" target="_blank"
>see their contributions in the source code</a>.
