src/content/examples/en/10_Games/02_Snake/description.mdx, before:

---
featuredImage: "../../../images/featured/10_Games-02_Snake-thumbnail.png"
title: Snake
oneLineDescription: Make a game based on Snake arcade games.
---

This is a reproduction of a type of arcade game called
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_(video_game_genre)" target="_blank">Snake</a>.
The first Snake game was Blockade, released in 1976, and many
games use the same structure. In Snake games, the player controls
the movements of a snake, represented in this example by a green
line. The player's goal is to collide the snake with a fruit,
represented by a red dot. Each time the snake collides with a fruit,
the snake grows longer. The player's goal is grow the snake as long
as possible without colliding the snake into itself or into the edges
of the play area.

This example uses an array of
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5.Vector" target="_blank">vectors</a>
to store the positions of each of the segments of the snake. The arrow
keys control the snake's movement.

Commit message:

Add attribution placeholders in example descriptions

src/content/examples/en/10_Games/02_Snake/description.mdx, after:

---
featuredImage: "../../../images/featured/10_Games-02_Snake-thumbnail.png"
title: Snake
oneLineDescription: Make a game based on Snake arcade games.
---

This is a reproduction of a type of arcade game called
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_(video_game_genre)" target="_blank">Snake</a>.
The first Snake game was Blockade, released in 1976, and many
games use the same structure. In Snake games, the player controls
the movements of a snake, represented in this example by a green
line. The player's goal is to collide the snake with a fruit,
represented by a red dot. Each time the snake collides with a fruit,
the snake grows longer. The player's goal is grow the snake as long
as possible without colliding the snake into itself or into the edges
of the play area.

This example uses an array of
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5.Vector" target="_blank">vectors</a>
to store the positions of each of the segments of the snake. The arrow
keys control the snake's movement.

Contributors from the p5 community wrote this example. Soon their names will 
appear here. In the meantime, you can 
<a 
href="https://github.com/processing/p5.js-website/blame/d6b28924185dac5e25c39cd0fc2fc4a1f6392883/src/content/examples/en/10_Games/02_Snake/code.js" target="_blank"
>see their contributions in the source code</a>.
