src/content/examples/en/11_3D/02_Materials/description.mdx, before:

---
featuredImage: "../../../images/featured/11_3D-02_Materials-thumbnail.png"
title: Materials
oneLineDescription: Change 3D objects' color, texture, and how they respond to light.
---

In 3D rendering, a material determines how a surface
responds to light. p5's
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/WEBGL" target="_blank">WEBGL</a>
mode supports
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/ambientMaterial" target="_blank">ambient</a>,
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/emissiveMaterial" target="_blank">emissive</a>,
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/normalMaterial" target="_blank">normal</a>, and
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/specularMaterial" target="_blank">specular</a>
materials.

An ambient material responds to ambient light only. A specular
material responds to any light source. In p5, an emissive material
displays its color regardless of light source. In other contexts,
typically an emissive material emits light. A normal material
visualizes the direction each part of the surface faces. A normal
material does not respond to light.

Ambient and emissive materials can be combined with each other.
They can also be combined with fill and stroke. Fill sets a base
color for the surface, and stroke sets the color for the object's
vertices.

Additionally,
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/texture" target="_blank">texture()</a>
wraps an object with an image. The model and image texture in this example are
from <a href="https://nasa3d.arc.nasa.gov" target="_blank">NASA's collection</a>.

Commit message:

Add attribution placeholders in example descriptions

src/content/examples/en/11_3D/02_Materials/description.mdx, after:

---
featuredImage: "../../../images/featured/11_3D-02_Materials-thumbnail.png"
title: Materials
oneLineDescription: Change 3D objects' color, texture, and how they respond to light.
---

In 3D rendering, a material determines how a surface
responds to light. p5's
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/WEBGL" target="_blank">WEBGL</a>
mode supports
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/ambientMaterial" target="_blank">ambient</a>,
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/emissiveMaterial" target="_blank">emissive</a>,
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/normalMaterial" target="_blank">normal</a>, and
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/specularMaterial" target="_blank">specular</a>
materials.

An ambient material responds to ambient light only. A specular
material responds to any light source. In p5, an emissive material
displays its color regardless of light source. In other contexts,
typically an emissive material emits light. A normal material
visualizes the direction each part of the surface faces. A normal
material does not respond to light.

Ambient and emissive materials can be combined with each other.
They can also be combined with fill and stroke. Fill sets a base
color for the surface, and stroke sets the color for the object's
vertices.

Additionally,
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/texture" target="_blank">texture()</a>
wraps an object with an image. The model and image texture in this example are
from <a href="https://nasa3d.arc.nasa.gov" target="_blank">NASA's collection</a>.

Contributors from the p5 community wrote this example. Soon their names will 
appear here. In the meantime, you can 
<a 
href="https://github.com/processing/p5.js-website/blame/d6b28924185dac5e25c39cd0fc2fc4a1f6392883/src/content/examples/en/11_3D/02_Materials/code.js" target="_blank"
>see their contributions in the source code</a>.
