src/content/reference/en/p5/p5.Element.mdx, before:

---
title: p5.Element
module: DOM
submodule: DOM
file: src/core/p5.Element.js
description: >
  <p>A class to describe an

  <a
  href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started"
  target="_blank">HTML element</a>.</p>

  <p>Sketches can use many elements. Common elements include the drawing canvas,

  buttons, sliders, webcam feeds, and so on.</p>

  <p>All elements share the methods of the <code>p5.Element</code> class.
  They're created

  with functions such as <a href="/reference/p5/createCanvas">createCanvas()</a>
  and

  <a href="/reference/p5/createButton">createButton()</a>.</p>
line: 9
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: elt
    description: |
      <p>wrapped DOM element.</p>
    type: HTMLElement
  - name: pInst
    description: |
      <p>pointer to p5 instance.</p>
    type: P5
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div>
    <code>
    function setup() {
      createCanvas(100, 100);

      background(200);

      // Create a button element and
      // place it beneath the canvas.
      let btn = createButton('change');
      btn.position(0, 100);

      // Call randomColor() when
      // the button is pressed.
      btn.mousePressed(randomColor);

      describe('A gray square with a button that says "change" beneath it. The square changes color when the user presses the button.');
    }

    // Paint the background either
    // red, yellow, blue, or green.
    function randomColor() {
      let c = random(['red', 'yellow', 'blue', 'green']);
      background(c);
    }
    </code>
    </div>
methods:
  parent:
    description: >
      <p>Attaches the element to a parent element.</p>

      <p>For example, a <code><div></div></code> element may be used as a box to

      hold two pieces of text, a header and a paragraph. The

      <code><div></div></code> is the parent element of both the header and

      paragraph.</p>

      <p>The parameter <code>parent</code> can have one of three types.
      <code>parent</code> can be a

      string with the parent element's ID, as in

      <code>myElement.parent('container')</code>. It can also be another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Element">p5.Element</a> object, as in

      <code>myElement.parent(myDiv)</code>. Finally, <code>parent</code> can be
      an <code>HTMLElement</code>

      object, as in <code>myElement.parent(anotherElement)</code>.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.parent()</code> without an argument returns the
      element's

      parent.</p>
    path: p5.Element/parent
  id:
    description: >
      <p>Sets the element's ID using a given string.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.id()</code> without an argument returns its ID
      as a string.</p>
    path: p5.Element/id
  class:
    description: >
      <p>Adds a

      <a
      href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/class"
      target="_blank">class attribute</a>

      to the element using a given string.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.class()</code> without an argument returns a
      string with its current classes.</p>
    path: p5.Element/class
  mousePressed:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse is pressed over the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mousePressed(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Some mobile browsers may also trigger this event when the element

      receives a quick tap.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mousePressed
  doubleClicked:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse is pressed twice over the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.doubleClicked(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/doubleClicked
  mouseWheel:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse wheel scrolls over the element.</p>

      <p>The callback function, <code>fxn</code>, is passed an
      <code>event</code> object. <code>event</code> has

      two numeric properties, <code>deltaY</code> and <code>deltaX</code>.
      <code>event.deltaY</code> is

      negative if the mouse wheel rotates away from the user. It's positive if

      the mouse wheel rotates toward the user. <code>event.deltaX</code> is
      positive if

      the mouse wheel moves to the right. It's negative if the mouse wheel moves

      to the left.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseWheel(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseWheel
  mouseReleased:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse is released over the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseReleased(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Some mobile browsers may also trigger this event when the element

      receives a quick tap.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseReleased
  mouseClicked:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse is pressed and released over the
      element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseReleased(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Some mobile browsers may also trigger this event when the element

      receives a quick tap.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseClicked
  mouseMoved:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse moves over the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseMoved(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseMoved
  mouseOver:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse moves onto the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseOver(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseOver
  mouseOut:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse moves off the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseOut(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseOut
  touchStarted:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the element is touched.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.touchStarted(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Touch functions only work on mobile devices.</p>
    path: p5.Element/touchStarted
  touchMoved:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the user touches the element and moves.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.touchMoved(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Touch functions only work on mobile devices.</p>
    path: p5.Element/touchMoved
  touchEnded:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the user stops touching the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.touchMoved(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Touch functions only work on mobile devices.</p>
    path: p5.Element/touchEnded
  dragOver:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when a file is dragged over the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.dragOver(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/dragOver
  dragLeave:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when a file is dragged off the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.dragLeave(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/dragLeave
  addClass:
    description: |
      <p>Adds a class to the element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/addClass
  removeClass:
    description: |
      <p>Removes a class from the element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/removeClass
  hasClass:
    description: |
      <p>Checks if a class is already applied to element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/hasClass
  toggleClass:
    description: |
      <p>Toggles whether a class is applied to the element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/toggleClass
  child:
    description: >
      <p>Attaches the element as a child of another element.</p>

      <p><code>myElement.child()</code> accepts either a string ID, DOM node, or

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Element">p5.Element</a>. For example,

      <code>myElement.child(otherElement)</code>. If no argument is provided, an
      array of

      children DOM nodes is returned.</p>
    path: p5.Element/child
  center:
    description: >
      <p>Centers the element either vertically, horizontally, or both.</p>

      <p><code>center()</code> will center the element relative to its parent or
      according to

      the page's body if the element has no parent.</p>

      <p>If no argument is passed, as in <code>myElement.center()</code> the
      element is aligned

      both vertically and horizontally.</p>
    path: p5.Element/center
  html:
    description: >
      <p>Sets the inner HTML of the element, replacing any existing HTML.</p>

      <p>The second parameter, <code>append</code>, is optional. If
      <code>true</code> is passed, as in

      <code>myElement.html('hi', true)</code>, the HTML is appended instead of
      replacing

      existing HTML.</p>

      <p>If no arguments are passed, as in <code>myElement.html()</code>, the
      element's inner

      HTML is returned.</p>
    path: p5.Element/html
  position:
    description: >
      <p>Sets the element's position.</p>

      <p>The first two parameters, <code>x</code> and <code>y</code>, set the
      element's position relative

      to the top-left corner of the web page.</p>

      <p>The third parameter, <code>positionType</code>, is optional. It sets
      the element's

      <a target="_blank"
      href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position">positioning
      scheme</a>.

      <code>positionType</code> is a string that can be either
      <code>'static'</code>, <code>'fixed'</code>,

      <code>'relative'</code>, <code>'sticky'</code>, <code>'initial'</code>, or
      <code>'inherit'</code>.</p>

      <p>If no arguments passed, as in <code>myElement.position()</code>, the
      method returns

      the element's position in an object, as in <code>{ x: 0, y: 0
      }</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Element/position
  style:
    description: >
      <p>Applies a style to the element by adding a

      <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Syntax"
      target="_blank">CSS declaration</a>.</p>

      <p>The first parameter, <code>property</code>, is a string. If the name of
      a style

      property is passed, as in <code>myElement.style('color')</code>, the
      method returns

      the current value as a string or <code>null</code> if it hasn't been set.
      If a

      <code>property:style</code> string is passed, as in

      <code>myElement.style('color:deeppink')</code>, the method sets the style
      <code>property</code>

      to <code>value</code>.</p>

      <p>The second parameter, <code>value</code>, is optional. It sets the
      property's value.

      <code>value</code> can be a string, as in

      <code>myElement.style('color', 'deeppink')</code>, or a

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Color">p5.Color</a> object, as in

      <code>myElement.style('color', myColor)</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Element/style
  attribute:
    description: >
      <p>Adds an

      <a
      href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started#attributes"
      target="_blank">attribute</a>

      to the element.</p>

      <p>This method is useful for advanced tasks. Most commonly-used
      attributes,

      such as <code>id</code>, can be set with their dedicated methods. For
      example,

      <code>nextButton.id('next')</code> sets an element's <code>id</code>
      attribute. Calling

      <code>nextButton.attribute('id', 'next')</code> has the same effect.</p>

      <p>The first parameter, <code>attr</code>, is the attribute's name as a
      string. Calling

      <code>myElement.attribute('align')</code> returns the attribute's current
      value as a

      string or <code>null</code> if it hasn't been set.</p>

      <p>The second parameter, <code>value</code>, is optional. It's a string
      used to set the

      attribute's value. For example, calling

      <code>myElement.attribute('align', 'center')</code> sets the element's
      horizontal

      alignment to <code>center</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Element/attribute
  removeAttribute:
    description: >
      <p>Removes an attribute from the element.</p>

      <p>The parameter <code>attr</code> is the attribute's name as a string.
      For example,

      calling <code>myElement.removeAttribute('align')</code> removes its
      <code>align</code>

      attribute if it's been set.</p>
    path: p5.Element/removeAttribute
  value:
    description: >
      <p>Returns or sets the element's value.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.value()</code> returns the element's current
      value.</p>

      <p>The parameter, <code>value</code>, is an optional number or string. If
      provided,

      as in <code>myElement.value(123)</code>, it's used to set the element's
      value.</p>
    path: p5.Element/value
  show:
    description: |
      <p>Shows the current element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/show
  hide:
    description: |
      <p>Hides the current element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/hide
  size:
    description: >
      <p>Sets the element's width and height.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.size()</code> without an argument returns the
      element's size

      as an object with the properties <code>width</code> and
      <code>height</code>. For example,
       <code>{ width: 20, height: 10 }</code>.</p>
      <p>The first parameter, <code>width</code>, is optional. It's a number
      used to set the

      element's width. Calling <code>myElement.size(10)</code></p>

      <p>The second parameter, 'height<code>, is also optional. It's a number
      used to set the element's height. For example, calling
      </code>myElement.size(20, 10)` sets the element's width to 20 pixels and
      height

      to 10 pixels.</p>

      <p>The constant <code>AUTO</code> can be used to adjust one dimension at a
      time while

      maintaining the aspect ratio, which is <code>width / height</code>. For
      example,

      consider an element that's 200 pixels wide and 100 pixels tall. Calling

      <code>myElement.size(20, AUTO)</code> sets the width to 20 pixels and
      height to 10

      pixels.</p>

      <p>Note: In the case of elements that need to load data, such as images,
      wait

      to call <code>myElement.size()</code> until after the data loads.</p>
    path: p5.Element/size
  remove:
    description: |
      <p>Removes the element, stops all audio/video streams, and removes all
      callback functions.</p>
    path: p5.Element/remove
  drop:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the user drops a file on the element.</p>

      <p>The first parameter, <code>callback</code>, is a function to call once
      the file loads.

      The callback function should have one parameter, <code>file</code>, that's
      a

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.File">p5.File</a> object. If the user drops
      multiple files on

      the element, <code>callback</code>, is called once for each file.</p>

      <p>The second parameter, <code>fxn</code>, is a function to call when the
      browser detects

      one or more dropped files. The callback function should have one

      parameter, <code>event</code>, that's a

      <a
      href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DragEvent">DragEvent</a>.</p>
    path: p5.Element/drop
  draggable:
    description: >
      <p>Makes the element draggable.</p>

      <p>The parameter, <code>elmnt</code>, is optional. If another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Element">p5.Element</a> object is passed, as in

      <code>myElement.draggable(otherElement)</code>, the other element will
      become draggable.</p>
    path: p5.Element/draggable
chainable: false
---


# p5.Element

Commit message:

Ensure that properties exist in class previews

src/content/reference/en/p5/p5.Element.mdx, after:

---
title: p5.Element
module: DOM
submodule: DOM
file: src/core/p5.Element.js
description: >
  <p>A class to describe an

  <a
  href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started"
  target="_blank">HTML element</a>.</p>

  <p>Sketches can use many elements. Common elements include the drawing canvas,

  buttons, sliders, webcam feeds, and so on.</p>

  <p>All elements share the methods of the <code>p5.Element</code> class.
  They're created

  with functions such as <a href="/reference/p5/createCanvas">createCanvas()</a>
  and

  <a href="/reference/p5/createButton">createButton()</a>.</p>
line: 9
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: elt
    description: |
      <p>wrapped DOM element.</p>
    type: HTMLElement
  - name: pInst
    description: |
      <p>pointer to p5 instance.</p>
    type: P5
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div>
    <code>
    function setup() {
      createCanvas(100, 100);

      background(200);

      // Create a button element and
      // place it beneath the canvas.
      let btn = createButton('change');
      btn.position(0, 100);

      // Call randomColor() when
      // the button is pressed.
      btn.mousePressed(randomColor);

      describe('A gray square with a button that says "change" beneath it. The square changes color when the user presses the button.');
    }

    // Paint the background either
    // red, yellow, blue, or green.
    function randomColor() {
      let c = random(['red', 'yellow', 'blue', 'green']);
      background(c);
    }
    </code>
    </div>
methods:
  parent:
    description: >
      <p>Attaches the element to a parent element.</p>

      <p>For example, a <code><div></div></code> element may be used as a box to

      hold two pieces of text, a header and a paragraph. The

      <code><div></div></code> is the parent element of both the header and

      paragraph.</p>

      <p>The parameter <code>parent</code> can have one of three types.
      <code>parent</code> can be a

      string with the parent element's ID, as in

      <code>myElement.parent('container')</code>. It can also be another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Element">p5.Element</a> object, as in

      <code>myElement.parent(myDiv)</code>. Finally, <code>parent</code> can be
      an <code>HTMLElement</code>

      object, as in <code>myElement.parent(anotherElement)</code>.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.parent()</code> without an argument returns the
      element's

      parent.</p>
    path: p5.Element/parent
  id:
    description: >
      <p>Sets the element's ID using a given string.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.id()</code> without an argument returns its ID
      as a string.</p>
    path: p5.Element/id
  class:
    description: >
      <p>Adds a

      <a
      href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/class"
      target="_blank">class attribute</a>

      to the element using a given string.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.class()</code> without an argument returns a
      string with its current classes.</p>
    path: p5.Element/class
  mousePressed:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse is pressed over the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mousePressed(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Some mobile browsers may also trigger this event when the element

      receives a quick tap.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mousePressed
  doubleClicked:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse is pressed twice over the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.doubleClicked(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/doubleClicked
  mouseWheel:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse wheel scrolls over the element.</p>

      <p>The callback function, <code>fxn</code>, is passed an
      <code>event</code> object. <code>event</code> has

      two numeric properties, <code>deltaY</code> and <code>deltaX</code>.
      <code>event.deltaY</code> is

      negative if the mouse wheel rotates away from the user. It's positive if

      the mouse wheel rotates toward the user. <code>event.deltaX</code> is
      positive if

      the mouse wheel moves to the right. It's negative if the mouse wheel moves

      to the left.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseWheel(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseWheel
  mouseReleased:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse is released over the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseReleased(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Some mobile browsers may also trigger this event when the element

      receives a quick tap.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseReleased
  mouseClicked:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse is pressed and released over the
      element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseReleased(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Some mobile browsers may also trigger this event when the element

      receives a quick tap.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseClicked
  mouseMoved:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse moves over the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseMoved(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseMoved
  mouseOver:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse moves onto the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseOver(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseOver
  mouseOut:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the mouse moves off the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.mouseOut(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/mouseOut
  touchStarted:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the element is touched.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.touchStarted(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Touch functions only work on mobile devices.</p>
    path: p5.Element/touchStarted
  touchMoved:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the user touches the element and moves.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.touchMoved(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Touch functions only work on mobile devices.</p>
    path: p5.Element/touchMoved
  touchEnded:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the user stops touching the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.touchMoved(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>

      <p>Note: Touch functions only work on mobile devices.</p>
    path: p5.Element/touchEnded
  dragOver:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when a file is dragged over the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.dragOver(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/dragOver
  dragLeave:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when a file is dragged off the element.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.dragLeave(false)</code> disables the
      function.</p>
    path: p5.Element/dragLeave
  addClass:
    description: |
      <p>Adds a class to the element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/addClass
  removeClass:
    description: |
      <p>Removes a class from the element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/removeClass
  hasClass:
    description: |
      <p>Checks if a class is already applied to element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/hasClass
  toggleClass:
    description: |
      <p>Toggles whether a class is applied to the element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/toggleClass
  child:
    description: >
      <p>Attaches the element as a child of another element.</p>

      <p><code>myElement.child()</code> accepts either a string ID, DOM node, or

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Element">p5.Element</a>. For example,

      <code>myElement.child(otherElement)</code>. If no argument is provided, an
      array of

      children DOM nodes is returned.</p>
    path: p5.Element/child
  center:
    description: >
      <p>Centers the element either vertically, horizontally, or both.</p>

      <p><code>center()</code> will center the element relative to its parent or
      according to

      the page's body if the element has no parent.</p>

      <p>If no argument is passed, as in <code>myElement.center()</code> the
      element is aligned

      both vertically and horizontally.</p>
    path: p5.Element/center
  html:
    description: >
      <p>Sets the inner HTML of the element, replacing any existing HTML.</p>

      <p>The second parameter, <code>append</code>, is optional. If
      <code>true</code> is passed, as in

      <code>myElement.html('hi', true)</code>, the HTML is appended instead of
      replacing

      existing HTML.</p>

      <p>If no arguments are passed, as in <code>myElement.html()</code>, the
      element's inner

      HTML is returned.</p>
    path: p5.Element/html
  position:
    description: >
      <p>Sets the element's position.</p>

      <p>The first two parameters, <code>x</code> and <code>y</code>, set the
      element's position relative

      to the top-left corner of the web page.</p>

      <p>The third parameter, <code>positionType</code>, is optional. It sets
      the element's

      <a target="_blank"
      href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position">positioning
      scheme</a>.

      <code>positionType</code> is a string that can be either
      <code>'static'</code>, <code>'fixed'</code>,

      <code>'relative'</code>, <code>'sticky'</code>, <code>'initial'</code>, or
      <code>'inherit'</code>.</p>

      <p>If no arguments passed, as in <code>myElement.position()</code>, the
      method returns

      the element's position in an object, as in <code>{ x: 0, y: 0
      }</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Element/position
  style:
    description: >
      <p>Applies a style to the element by adding a

      <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Syntax"
      target="_blank">CSS declaration</a>.</p>

      <p>The first parameter, <code>property</code>, is a string. If the name of
      a style

      property is passed, as in <code>myElement.style('color')</code>, the
      method returns

      the current value as a string or <code>null</code> if it hasn't been set.
      If a

      <code>property:style</code> string is passed, as in

      <code>myElement.style('color:deeppink')</code>, the method sets the style
      <code>property</code>

      to <code>value</code>.</p>

      <p>The second parameter, <code>value</code>, is optional. It sets the
      property's value.

      <code>value</code> can be a string, as in

      <code>myElement.style('color', 'deeppink')</code>, or a

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Color">p5.Color</a> object, as in

      <code>myElement.style('color', myColor)</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Element/style
  attribute:
    description: >
      <p>Adds an

      <a
      href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started#attributes"
      target="_blank">attribute</a>

      to the element.</p>

      <p>This method is useful for advanced tasks. Most commonly-used
      attributes,

      such as <code>id</code>, can be set with their dedicated methods. For
      example,

      <code>nextButton.id('next')</code> sets an element's <code>id</code>
      attribute. Calling

      <code>nextButton.attribute('id', 'next')</code> has the same effect.</p>

      <p>The first parameter, <code>attr</code>, is the attribute's name as a
      string. Calling

      <code>myElement.attribute('align')</code> returns the attribute's current
      value as a

      string or <code>null</code> if it hasn't been set.</p>

      <p>The second parameter, <code>value</code>, is optional. It's a string
      used to set the

      attribute's value. For example, calling

      <code>myElement.attribute('align', 'center')</code> sets the element's
      horizontal

      alignment to <code>center</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Element/attribute
  removeAttribute:
    description: >
      <p>Removes an attribute from the element.</p>

      <p>The parameter <code>attr</code> is the attribute's name as a string.
      For example,

      calling <code>myElement.removeAttribute('align')</code> removes its
      <code>align</code>

      attribute if it's been set.</p>
    path: p5.Element/removeAttribute
  value:
    description: >
      <p>Returns or sets the element's value.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.value()</code> returns the element's current
      value.</p>

      <p>The parameter, <code>value</code>, is an optional number or string. If
      provided,

      as in <code>myElement.value(123)</code>, it's used to set the element's
      value.</p>
    path: p5.Element/value
  show:
    description: |
      <p>Shows the current element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/show
  hide:
    description: |
      <p>Hides the current element.</p>
    path: p5.Element/hide
  size:
    description: >
      <p>Sets the element's width and height.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>myElement.size()</code> without an argument returns the
      element's size

      as an object with the properties <code>width</code> and
      <code>height</code>. For example,
       <code>{ width: 20, height: 10 }</code>.</p>
      <p>The first parameter, <code>width</code>, is optional. It's a number
      used to set the

      element's width. Calling <code>myElement.size(10)</code></p>

      <p>The second parameter, 'height<code>, is also optional. It's a number
      used to set the element's height. For example, calling
      </code>myElement.size(20, 10)` sets the element's width to 20 pixels and
      height

      to 10 pixels.</p>

      <p>The constant <code>AUTO</code> can be used to adjust one dimension at a
      time while

      maintaining the aspect ratio, which is <code>width / height</code>. For
      example,

      consider an element that's 200 pixels wide and 100 pixels tall. Calling

      <code>myElement.size(20, AUTO)</code> sets the width to 20 pixels and
      height to 10

      pixels.</p>

      <p>Note: In the case of elements that need to load data, such as images,
      wait

      to call <code>myElement.size()</code> until after the data loads.</p>
    path: p5.Element/size
  remove:
    description: |
      <p>Removes the element, stops all audio/video streams, and removes all
      callback functions.</p>
    path: p5.Element/remove
  drop:
    description: >
      <p>Calls a function when the user drops a file on the element.</p>

      <p>The first parameter, <code>callback</code>, is a function to call once
      the file loads.

      The callback function should have one parameter, <code>file</code>, that's
      a

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.File">p5.File</a> object. If the user drops
      multiple files on

      the element, <code>callback</code>, is called once for each file.</p>

      <p>The second parameter, <code>fxn</code>, is a function to call when the
      browser detects

      one or more dropped files. The callback function should have one

      parameter, <code>event</code>, that's a

      <a
      href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DragEvent">DragEvent</a>.</p>
    path: p5.Element/drop
  draggable:
    description: >
      <p>Makes the element draggable.</p>

      <p>The parameter, <code>elmnt</code>, is optional. If another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Element">p5.Element</a> object is passed, as in

      <code>myElement.draggable(otherElement)</code>, the other element will
      become draggable.</p>
    path: p5.Element/draggable
properties:
  elt:
    description: >
      <p>The element's underlying <code>HTMLElement</code> object.</p>

      <p>The

      <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement"
      target="_blank">HTMLElement</a>

      object's properties and methods can be used directly.</p>
    path: p5.Element/elt
  width:
    description: |
      <p>A <code>Number</code> property that stores the element's width.</p>
    path: p5.Element/width
  height:
    description: |
      <p>A <code>Number</code> property that stores the element's height.</p>
    path: p5.Element/height
chainable: false
---


# p5.Element
