src/content/reference/en/p5/p5.Table.mdx, before:

---
title: p5.Table
module: IO
submodule: Table
file: src/io/p5.Table.js
description: >
  <p><a href="/reference/p5/p5.Table">Table</a> objects store data with multiple
  rows and columns, much

  like in a traditional spreadsheet. Tables can be generated from

  scratch, dynamically, or using data from an existing file.</p>
line: 33
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: rows
    description: |
      <p>An array of p5.TableRow objects</p>
    type: 'p5.TableRow[]'
    optional: true
methods:
  addRow:
    description: >
      <p>Use <a href="/reference/p5/addRow">addRow()</a> to add a new row of
      data to a <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Table">p5.Table</a> object. By
      default,

      an empty row is created. Typically, you would store a reference to

      the new row in a TableRow object (see newRow in the example above),

      and then set individual values using <a
      href="/reference/p5/set">set()</a>.</p>

      <p>If a <a href="/reference/p5/p5.TableRow">p5.TableRow</a> object is
      included as a parameter, then that row is

      duplicated and added to the table.</p>
    path: p5.Table/addRow
  removeRow:
    description: |
      <p>Removes a row from the table object.</p>
    path: p5.Table/removeRow
  getRow:
    description: >
      <p>Returns a reference to the specified <a
      href="/reference/p5/p5.TableRow">p5.TableRow</a>. The reference

      can then be used to get and set values of the selected row.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getRow
  getRows:
    description: >
      <p>Gets all rows from the table. Returns an array of <a
      href="/reference/p5/p5.TableRow">p5.TableRow</a>s.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getRows
  findRow:
    description: |
      <p>Finds the first row in the Table that contains the value
      provided, and returns a reference to that row. Even if
      multiple rows are possible matches, only the first matching
      row is returned. The column to search may be specified by
      either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/findRow
  findRows:
    description: |
      <p>Finds the rows in the Table that contain the value
      provided, and returns references to those rows. Returns an
      Array, so for must be used to iterate through all the rows,
      as shown in the example above. The column to search may be
      specified by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/findRows
  matchRow:
    description: |
      <p>Finds the first row in the Table that matches the regular
      expression provided, and returns a reference to that row.
      Even if multiple rows are possible matches, only the first
      matching row is returned. The column to search may be
      specified by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/matchRow
  matchRows:
    description: |
      <p>Finds the rows in the Table that match the regular expression provided,
      and returns references to those rows. Returns an array, so for must be
      used to iterate through all the rows, as shown in the example. The
      column to search may be specified by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/matchRows
  getColumn:
    description: |
      <p>Retrieves all values in the specified column, and returns them
      as an array. The column may be specified by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getColumn
  clearRows:
    description: |
      <p>Removes all rows from a Table. While all rows are removed,
      columns and column titles are maintained.</p>
    path: p5.Table/clearRows
  addColumn:
    description: >
      <p>Use <a href="/reference/p5/addColumn">addColumn()</a> to add a new
      column to a <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Table">Table</a> object.

      Typically, you will want to specify a title, so the column

      may be easily referenced later by name. (If no title is

      specified, the new column's title will be null.)</p>
    path: p5.Table/addColumn
  getColumnCount:
    description: |
      <p>Returns the total number of columns in a Table.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getColumnCount
  getRowCount:
    description: |
      <p>Returns the total number of rows in a Table.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getRowCount
  removeTokens:
    description: |
      <p>Removes any of the specified characters (or "tokens").</p>
      <p>If no column is specified, then the values in all columns and
      rows are processed. A specific column may be referenced by
      either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/removeTokens
  trim:
    description: |
      <p>Trims leading and trailing whitespace, such as spaces and tabs,
      from String table values. If no column is specified, then the
      values in all columns and rows are trimmed. A specific column
      may be referenced by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/trim
  removeColumn:
    description: >
      <p>Use <a href="/reference/p5/removeColumn">removeColumn()</a> to remove
      an existing column from a Table

      object. The column to be removed may be identified by either

      its title (a String) or its index value (an int).

      removeColumn(0) would remove the first column, removeColumn(1)

      would remove the second column, and so on.</p>
    path: p5.Table/removeColumn
  set:
    description: |
      <p>Stores a value in the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified
      by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/set
  setNum:
    description: |
      <p>Stores a Float value in the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified
      by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/setNum
  setString:
    description: |
      <p>Stores a String value in the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified
      by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/setString
  get:
    description: |
      <p>Retrieves a value from the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified by
      either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/get
  getNum:
    description: |
      <p>Retrieves a Float value from the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified by
      either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getNum
  getString:
    description: |
      <p>Retrieves a String value from the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified by
      either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getString
  getObject:
    description: |
      <p>Retrieves all table data and returns as an object. If a column name is
      passed in, each row object will be stored with that attribute as its
      title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getObject
  getArray:
    description: >
      <p>Retrieves all table data and returns it as a multidimensional
      array.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getArray
chainable: false
---


# p5.Table

Commit message:

Ensure that properties exist in class previews

src/content/reference/en/p5/p5.Table.mdx, after:

---
title: p5.Table
module: IO
submodule: Table
file: src/io/p5.Table.js
description: >
  <p><a href="/reference/p5/p5.Table">Table</a> objects store data with multiple
  rows and columns, much

  like in a traditional spreadsheet. Tables can be generated from

  scratch, dynamically, or using data from an existing file.</p>
line: 33
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: rows
    description: |
      <p>An array of p5.TableRow objects</p>
    type: 'p5.TableRow[]'
    optional: true
methods:
  addRow:
    description: >
      <p>Use <a href="/reference/p5/addRow">addRow()</a> to add a new row of
      data to a <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Table">p5.Table</a> object. By
      default,

      an empty row is created. Typically, you would store a reference to

      the new row in a TableRow object (see newRow in the example above),

      and then set individual values using <a
      href="/reference/p5/set">set()</a>.</p>

      <p>If a <a href="/reference/p5/p5.TableRow">p5.TableRow</a> object is
      included as a parameter, then that row is

      duplicated and added to the table.</p>
    path: p5.Table/addRow
  removeRow:
    description: |
      <p>Removes a row from the table object.</p>
    path: p5.Table/removeRow
  getRow:
    description: >
      <p>Returns a reference to the specified <a
      href="/reference/p5/p5.TableRow">p5.TableRow</a>. The reference

      can then be used to get and set values of the selected row.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getRow
  getRows:
    description: >
      <p>Gets all rows from the table. Returns an array of <a
      href="/reference/p5/p5.TableRow">p5.TableRow</a>s.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getRows
  findRow:
    description: |
      <p>Finds the first row in the Table that contains the value
      provided, and returns a reference to that row. Even if
      multiple rows are possible matches, only the first matching
      row is returned. The column to search may be specified by
      either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/findRow
  findRows:
    description: |
      <p>Finds the rows in the Table that contain the value
      provided, and returns references to those rows. Returns an
      Array, so for must be used to iterate through all the rows,
      as shown in the example above. The column to search may be
      specified by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/findRows
  matchRow:
    description: |
      <p>Finds the first row in the Table that matches the regular
      expression provided, and returns a reference to that row.
      Even if multiple rows are possible matches, only the first
      matching row is returned. The column to search may be
      specified by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/matchRow
  matchRows:
    description: |
      <p>Finds the rows in the Table that match the regular expression provided,
      and returns references to those rows. Returns an array, so for must be
      used to iterate through all the rows, as shown in the example. The
      column to search may be specified by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/matchRows
  getColumn:
    description: |
      <p>Retrieves all values in the specified column, and returns them
      as an array. The column may be specified by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getColumn
  clearRows:
    description: |
      <p>Removes all rows from a Table. While all rows are removed,
      columns and column titles are maintained.</p>
    path: p5.Table/clearRows
  addColumn:
    description: >
      <p>Use <a href="/reference/p5/addColumn">addColumn()</a> to add a new
      column to a <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Table">Table</a> object.

      Typically, you will want to specify a title, so the column

      may be easily referenced later by name. (If no title is

      specified, the new column's title will be null.)</p>
    path: p5.Table/addColumn
  getColumnCount:
    description: |
      <p>Returns the total number of columns in a Table.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getColumnCount
  getRowCount:
    description: |
      <p>Returns the total number of rows in a Table.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getRowCount
  removeTokens:
    description: |
      <p>Removes any of the specified characters (or "tokens").</p>
      <p>If no column is specified, then the values in all columns and
      rows are processed. A specific column may be referenced by
      either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/removeTokens
  trim:
    description: |
      <p>Trims leading and trailing whitespace, such as spaces and tabs,
      from String table values. If no column is specified, then the
      values in all columns and rows are trimmed. A specific column
      may be referenced by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/trim
  removeColumn:
    description: >
      <p>Use <a href="/reference/p5/removeColumn">removeColumn()</a> to remove
      an existing column from a Table

      object. The column to be removed may be identified by either

      its title (a String) or its index value (an int).

      removeColumn(0) would remove the first column, removeColumn(1)

      would remove the second column, and so on.</p>
    path: p5.Table/removeColumn
  set:
    description: |
      <p>Stores a value in the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified
      by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/set
  setNum:
    description: |
      <p>Stores a Float value in the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified
      by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/setNum
  setString:
    description: |
      <p>Stores a String value in the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified
      by either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/setString
  get:
    description: |
      <p>Retrieves a value from the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified by
      either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/get
  getNum:
    description: |
      <p>Retrieves a Float value from the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified by
      either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getNum
  getString:
    description: |
      <p>Retrieves a String value from the Table's specified row and column.
      The row is specified by its ID, while the column may be specified by
      either its ID or title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getString
  getObject:
    description: |
      <p>Retrieves all table data and returns as an object. If a column name is
      passed in, each row object will be stored with that attribute as its
      title.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getObject
  getArray:
    description: >
      <p>Retrieves all table data and returns it as a multidimensional
      array.</p>
    path: p5.Table/getArray
properties:
  columns:
    description: >
      <p>An array containing the names of the columns in the table, if the
      "header" the table is

      loaded with the "header" parameter.</p>
    path: p5.Table/columns
  rows:
    description: >
      <p>An array containing the <a
      href="/reference/p5/p5.Table">p5.TableRow</a> objects that make up the

      rows of the table. The same result as calling <a
      href="/reference/p5/getRows">getRows()</a></p>
    path: p5.Table/rows
chainable: false
---


# p5.Table
