src/content/reference/en/p5/p5.Vector.mdx, before:

---
title: p5.Vector
module: Math
submodule: Vector
file: src/math/p5.Vector.js
description: >
  <p>A class to describe a two or three-dimensional vector.</p>

  <p>A vector can be thought of in different ways. In one view, a vector is like

  an arrow pointing in space. Vectors have both magnitude (length) and

  direction.</p>

  <p><code>p5.Vector</code> objects are often used to program motion because
  they simplify

  the math. For example, a moving ball has a position and a velocity.

  Position describes where the ball is in space. The ball's position vector

  extends from the origin to the ball's center. Velocity describes the ball's

  speed and the direction it's moving. If the ball is moving straight up, its

  velocity vector points straight up. Adding the ball's velocity vector to

  its position vector moves it, as in <code>pos.add(vel)</code>. Vector math
  relies on

  methods inside the <code>p5.Vector</code> class.</p>

  <p>Note: <a href="/reference/p5/createVector">createVector()</a> is the
  recommended way

  to make an instance of this class.</p>
line: 11
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: x
    description: |
      <p>x component of the vector.</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
  - name: 'y'
    description: |
      <p>y component of the vector.</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
  - name: z
    description: |
      <p>z component of the vector.</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div>
    <code>
    function setup() {
      createCanvas(100, 100);

      background(200);

      // Create p5.Vector objects.
      let p1 = createVector(25, 25);
      let p2 = createVector(75, 75);

      // Style the points.
      strokeWeight(5);

      // Draw the first point using a p5.Vector.
      point(p1);

      // Draw the second point using a p5.Vector's components.
      point(p2.x, p2.y);

      describe('Two black dots on a gray square, one at the top left and the other at the bottom right.');
    }
    </code>
    </div>

    <div>
    <code>
    let pos;
    let vel;

    function setup() {
      createCanvas(100, 100);

      // Create p5.Vector objects.
      pos = createVector(50, 100);
      vel = createVector(0, -1);

      describe('A black dot moves from bottom to top on a gray square. The dot reappears at the bottom when it reaches the top.');
    }

    function draw() {
      background(200);

      // Add velocity to position.
      pos.add(vel);

      // If the dot reaches the top of the canvas,
      // restart from the bottom.
      if (pos.y < 0) {
        pos.y = 100;
      }

      // Draw the dot.
      strokeWeight(5);
      point(pos);
    }
    </code>
    </div>
methods:
  toString:
    description: >
      <p>Returns a string representation of a vector.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>toString()</code> is useful for printing vectors to the
      console while

      debugging.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/toString
  set:
    description: >
      <p>Sets the vector's <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code>
      components.</p>

      <p><code>set()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.set(1, 2,
      3)</code>, a

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.set(v2)</code>, or an

      array of numbers, as in <code>v.set([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If a value isn't provided for a component, it will be set to 0. For

      example, <code>v.set(4, 5)</code> sets <code>v.x</code> to 4,
      <code>v.y</code> to 5, and <code>v.z</code> to 0.

      Calling <code>set()</code> with no arguments, as in <code>v.set()</code>,
      sets all the vector's

      components to 0.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/set
  copy:
    description: >
      <p>Returns a copy of the <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a>
      object.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/copy
  add:
    description: >
      <p>Adds to a vector's <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code>
      components.</p>

      <p><code>add()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.add(1, 2,
      3)</code>,

      another <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.add(v2)</code>, or

      an array of numbers, as in <code>v.add([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If a value isn't provided for a component, it won't change. For

      example, <code>v.add(4, 5)</code> adds 4 to <code>v.x</code>, 5 to
      <code>v.y</code>, and 0 to <code>v.z</code>.

      Calling <code>add()</code> with no arguments, as in <code>v.add()</code>,
      has no effect.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>add()</code>, as in <code>p5.Vector.add(v2,
      v1)</code>, returns a new

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't change
      the

      originals.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/add
  rem:
    description: >
      <p>Performs modulo (remainder) division with a vector's <code>x</code>,
      <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code>

      components.</p>

      <p><code>rem()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.rem(1, 2,
      3)</code>,

      another <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.rem(v2)</code>, or

      an array of numbers, as in <code>v.rem([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If only one value is provided, as in <code>v.rem(2)</code>, then all
      the components

      will be set to their values modulo 2. If two values are provided, as in

      <code>v.rem(2, 3)</code>, then <code>v.z</code> won't change. Calling
      <code>rem()</code> with no

      arguments, as in <code>v.rem()</code>, has no effect.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>rem()</code>, as in <code>p5.Vector.rem(v2,
      v1)</code>, returns a

      new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't
      change the

      originals.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/rem
  sub:
    description: >
      <p>Subtracts from a vector's <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and
      <code>z</code> components.</p>

      <p><code>sub()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.sub(1, 2,
      3)</code>, another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.sub(v2)</code>, or an array

      of numbers, as in <code>v.sub([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If a value isn't provided for a component, it won't change. For

      example, <code>v.sub(4, 5)</code> adds 4 to <code>v.x</code>, 5 to
      <code>v.y</code>, and 0 to <code>v.z</code>.

      Calling <code>sub()</code> with no arguments, as in <code>v.sub()</code>,
      has no effect.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>sub()</code>, as in <code>p5.Vector.sub(v2,
      v1)</code>, returns a new

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't change
      the

      originals.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/sub
  mult:
    description: >
      <p>Multiplies a vector's <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and
      <code>z</code> components.</p>

      <p><code>mult()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.mult(1, 2,
      3)</code>, another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.mult(v2)</code>, or an array

      of numbers, as in <code>v.mult([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If only one value is provided, as in <code>v.mult(2)</code>, then all
      the components

      will be multiplied by 2. If a value isn't provided for a component, it

      won't change. For example, <code>v.mult(4, 5)</code> multiplies
      <code>v.x</code> by, <code>v.y</code> by 5,

      and <code>v.z</code> by 1. Calling <code>mult()</code> with no arguments,
      as in <code>v.mult()</code>, has

      no effect.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>mult()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.mult(v, 2)</code>, returns a new

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't change
      the

      originals.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/mult
  div:
    description: >
      <p>Divides a vector's <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code>
      components.</p>

      <p><code>div()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.div(1, 2,
      3)</code>, another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.div(v2)</code>, or an array

      of numbers, as in <code>v.div([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If only one value is provided, as in <code>v.div(2)</code>, then all
      the components

      will be divided by 2. If a value isn't provided for a component, it

      won't change. For example, <code>v.div(4, 5)</code> divides
      <code>v.x</code> by, <code>v.y</code> by 5,

      and <code>v.z</code> by 1. Calling <code>div()</code> with no arguments,
      as in <code>v.div()</code>, has

      no effect.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>div()</code>, as in <code>p5.Vector.div(v,
      2)</code>, returns a new

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't change
      the

      originals.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/div
  mag:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the magnitude (length) of the vector.</p>

      <p>Use <a href="/reference/p5/mag">mag()</a> to calculate the magnitude of
      a 2D vector

      using components as in <code>mag(x, y)</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/mag
  magSq:
    description: |
      <p>Calculates the magnitude (length) of the vector squared.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/magSq
  dot:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the dot product of two vectors.</p>

      <p>The dot product is a number that describes the overlap between two
      vectors.

      Visually, the dot product can be thought of as the "shadow" one vector

      casts on another. The dot product's magnitude is largest when two vectors

      point in the same or opposite directions. Its magnitude is 0 when two

      vectors form a right angle.</p>

      <p>The version of <code>dot()</code> with one parameter interprets it as
      another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object.</p>

      <p>The version of <code>dot()</code> with multiple parameters interprets
      them as the

      <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code> components of another
      vector.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>dot()</code>, as in <code>p5.Vector.dot(v1,
      v2)</code>, is the same

      as calling <code>v1.dot(v2)</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/dot
  cross:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the cross product of two vectors.</p>

      <p>The cross product is a vector that points straight out of the plane
      created

      by two vectors. The cross product's magnitude is the area of the
      parallelogram

      formed by the original two vectors.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>cross()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.cross(v1, v2)</code>, is the same

      as calling <code>v1.cross(v2)</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/cross
  dist:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the distance between two points represented by vectors.</p>

      <p>A point's coordinates can be represented by the components of a vector

      that extends from the origin to the point.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>dist()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.dist(v1, v2)</code>, is the same

      as calling <code>v1.dist(v2)</code>.</p>

      <p>Use <a href="/reference/p5/dist">dist()</a> to calculate the distance
      between points

      using coordinates as in <code>dist(x1, y1, x2, y2)</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/dist
  normalize:
    description: >
      <p>Scales the components of a <a
      href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object so

      that its magnitude is 1.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>normalize()</code>,  as in
      <code>p5.Vector.normalize(v)</code>,

      returns a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and
      doesn't change

      the original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/normalize
  limit:
    description: >
      <p>Limits a vector's magnitude to a maximum value.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>limit()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.limit(v, 5)</code>, returns a

      new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't
      change the

      original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/limit
  setMag:
    description: >
      <p>Sets a vector's magnitude to a given value.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>setMag()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.setMag(v, 10)</code>, returns

      a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't
      change the

      original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/setMag
  heading:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the angle a 2D vector makes with the positive x-axis.</p>

      <p>By convention, the positive x-axis has an angle of 0. Angles increase
      in

      the clockwise direction.</p>

      <p>If the vector was created with

      <a href="/reference/p5/createVector">createVector()</a>,
      <code>heading()</code> returns angles

      in the units of the current <a
      href="/reference/p5/angleMode">angleMode()</a>.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>heading()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.heading(v)</code>, works the

      same way.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/heading
  setHeading:
    description: >
      <p>Rotates a 2D vector to a specific angle without changing its
      magnitude.</p>

      <p>By convention, the positive x-axis has an angle of 0. Angles increase
      in

      the clockwise direction.</p>

      <p>If the vector was created with

      <a href="/reference/p5/createVector">createVector()</a>,
      <code>setHeading()</code> uses

      the units of the current <a
      href="/reference/p5/angleMode">angleMode()</a>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/setHeading
  rotate:
    description: >
      <p>Rotates a 2D vector by an angle without changing its magnitude.</p>

      <p>By convention, the positive x-axis has an angle of 0. Angles increase
      in

      the clockwise direction.</p>

      <p>If the vector was created with

      <a href="/reference/p5/createVector">createVector()</a>,
      <code>rotate()</code> uses

      the units of the current <a
      href="/reference/p5/angleMode">angleMode()</a>.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>rotate()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.rotate(v, PI)</code>,

      returns a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and
      doesn't change

      the original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/rotate
  angleBetween:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the angle between two vectors.</p>

      <p>The angles returned are signed, which means that

      <code>v1.angleBetween(v2) === -v2.angleBetween(v1)</code>.</p>

      <p>If the vector was created with

      <a href="/reference/p5/createVector">createVector()</a>,
      <code>angleBetween()</code> returns

      angles in the units of the current

      <a href="/reference/p5/angleMode">angleMode()</a>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/angleBetween
  lerp:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates new <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code>
      components that are proportionally the

      same distance between two vectors.</p>

      <p>The <code>amt</code> parameter is the amount to interpolate between the
      old vector and

      the new vector. 0.0 keeps all components equal to the old vector's, 0.5 is

      halfway between, and 1.0 sets all components equal to the new
      vector's.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>lerp()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.lerp(v0, v1, 0.5)</code>,

      returns a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and
      doesn't change

      the original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/lerp
  slerp:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates a new heading and magnitude that are between two
      vectors.</p>

      <p>The <code>amt</code> parameter is the amount to interpolate between the
      old vector and

      the new vector. 0.0 keeps the heading and magnitude equal to the old

      vector's, 0.5 sets them halfway between, and 1.0 sets the heading and

      magnitude equal to the new vector's.</p>

      <p><code>slerp()</code> differs from <a
      href="/reference/p5.Vector/lerp">lerp()</a> because

      it interpolates magnitude. Calling <code>v0.slerp(v1, 0.5)</code> sets
      <code>v0</code>'s

      magnitude to a value halfway between its original magnitude and
      <code>v1</code>'s.

      Calling <code>v0.lerp(v1, 0.5)</code> makes no such guarantee.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>slerp()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.slerp(v0, v1, 0.5)</code>,

      returns a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and
      doesn't change

      the original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/slerp
  reflect:
    description: >
      <p>Reflects a vector about a line in 2D or a plane in 3D.</p>

      <p>The orientation of the line or plane is described by a normal vector
      that

      points away from the shape.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>reflect()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.reflect(v, n)</code>,

      returns a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and
      doesn't change

      the original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/reflect
  array:
    description: |
      <p>Returns the vector's components as an array of numbers.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/array
  equals:
    description: >
      <p>Checks whether all the vector's components are equal to another
      vector's.</p>

      <p><code>equals()</code> returns <code>true</code> if the vector's
      components are all the same as another

      vector's and <code>false</code> if not.</p>

      <p>The version of <code>equals()</code> with one parameter interprets it
      as another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object.</p>

      <p>The version of <code>equals()</code> with multiple parameters
      interprets them as the

      components of another vector. Any missing parameters are assigned the
      value

      0.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>equals()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.equals(v0, v1)</code>,

      interprets both parameters as <a
      href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> objects.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/equals
  fromAngle:
    description: |
      <p>Creates a new 2D vector from an angle.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/fromAngle
  fromAngles:
    description: |
      <p>Creates a new 3D vector from a pair of ISO spherical angles.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/fromAngles
  random2D:
    description: |
      <p>Creates a new 2D unit vector with a random heading.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/random2D
  random3D:
    description: |
      <p>Creates a new 3D unit vector with a random heading.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/random3D
chainable: false
---


# p5.Vector

Commit message:

Ensure that properties exist in class previews

src/content/reference/en/p5/p5.Vector.mdx, after:

---
title: p5.Vector
module: Math
submodule: Vector
file: src/math/p5.Vector.js
description: >
  <p>A class to describe a two or three-dimensional vector.</p>

  <p>A vector can be thought of in different ways. In one view, a vector is like

  an arrow pointing in space. Vectors have both magnitude (length) and

  direction.</p>

  <p><code>p5.Vector</code> objects are often used to program motion because
  they simplify

  the math. For example, a moving ball has a position and a velocity.

  Position describes where the ball is in space. The ball's position vector

  extends from the origin to the ball's center. Velocity describes the ball's

  speed and the direction it's moving. If the ball is moving straight up, its

  velocity vector points straight up. Adding the ball's velocity vector to

  its position vector moves it, as in <code>pos.add(vel)</code>. Vector math
  relies on

  methods inside the <code>p5.Vector</code> class.</p>

  <p>Note: <a href="/reference/p5/createVector">createVector()</a> is the
  recommended way

  to make an instance of this class.</p>
line: 11
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: x
    description: |
      <p>x component of the vector.</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
  - name: 'y'
    description: |
      <p>y component of the vector.</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
  - name: z
    description: |
      <p>z component of the vector.</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div>
    <code>
    function setup() {
      createCanvas(100, 100);

      background(200);

      // Create p5.Vector objects.
      let p1 = createVector(25, 25);
      let p2 = createVector(75, 75);

      // Style the points.
      strokeWeight(5);

      // Draw the first point using a p5.Vector.
      point(p1);

      // Draw the second point using a p5.Vector's components.
      point(p2.x, p2.y);

      describe('Two black dots on a gray square, one at the top left and the other at the bottom right.');
    }
    </code>
    </div>

    <div>
    <code>
    let pos;
    let vel;

    function setup() {
      createCanvas(100, 100);

      // Create p5.Vector objects.
      pos = createVector(50, 100);
      vel = createVector(0, -1);

      describe('A black dot moves from bottom to top on a gray square. The dot reappears at the bottom when it reaches the top.');
    }

    function draw() {
      background(200);

      // Add velocity to position.
      pos.add(vel);

      // If the dot reaches the top of the canvas,
      // restart from the bottom.
      if (pos.y < 0) {
        pos.y = 100;
      }

      // Draw the dot.
      strokeWeight(5);
      point(pos);
    }
    </code>
    </div>
methods:
  toString:
    description: >
      <p>Returns a string representation of a vector.</p>

      <p>Calling <code>toString()</code> is useful for printing vectors to the
      console while

      debugging.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/toString
  set:
    description: >
      <p>Sets the vector's <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code>
      components.</p>

      <p><code>set()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.set(1, 2,
      3)</code>, a

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.set(v2)</code>, or an

      array of numbers, as in <code>v.set([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If a value isn't provided for a component, it will be set to 0. For

      example, <code>v.set(4, 5)</code> sets <code>v.x</code> to 4,
      <code>v.y</code> to 5, and <code>v.z</code> to 0.

      Calling <code>set()</code> with no arguments, as in <code>v.set()</code>,
      sets all the vector's

      components to 0.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/set
  copy:
    description: >
      <p>Returns a copy of the <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a>
      object.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/copy
  add:
    description: >
      <p>Adds to a vector's <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code>
      components.</p>

      <p><code>add()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.add(1, 2,
      3)</code>,

      another <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.add(v2)</code>, or

      an array of numbers, as in <code>v.add([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If a value isn't provided for a component, it won't change. For

      example, <code>v.add(4, 5)</code> adds 4 to <code>v.x</code>, 5 to
      <code>v.y</code>, and 0 to <code>v.z</code>.

      Calling <code>add()</code> with no arguments, as in <code>v.add()</code>,
      has no effect.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>add()</code>, as in <code>p5.Vector.add(v2,
      v1)</code>, returns a new

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't change
      the

      originals.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/add
  rem:
    description: >
      <p>Performs modulo (remainder) division with a vector's <code>x</code>,
      <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code>

      components.</p>

      <p><code>rem()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.rem(1, 2,
      3)</code>,

      another <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.rem(v2)</code>, or

      an array of numbers, as in <code>v.rem([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If only one value is provided, as in <code>v.rem(2)</code>, then all
      the components

      will be set to their values modulo 2. If two values are provided, as in

      <code>v.rem(2, 3)</code>, then <code>v.z</code> won't change. Calling
      <code>rem()</code> with no

      arguments, as in <code>v.rem()</code>, has no effect.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>rem()</code>, as in <code>p5.Vector.rem(v2,
      v1)</code>, returns a

      new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't
      change the

      originals.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/rem
  sub:
    description: >
      <p>Subtracts from a vector's <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and
      <code>z</code> components.</p>

      <p><code>sub()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.sub(1, 2,
      3)</code>, another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.sub(v2)</code>, or an array

      of numbers, as in <code>v.sub([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If a value isn't provided for a component, it won't change. For

      example, <code>v.sub(4, 5)</code> adds 4 to <code>v.x</code>, 5 to
      <code>v.y</code>, and 0 to <code>v.z</code>.

      Calling <code>sub()</code> with no arguments, as in <code>v.sub()</code>,
      has no effect.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>sub()</code>, as in <code>p5.Vector.sub(v2,
      v1)</code>, returns a new

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't change
      the

      originals.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/sub
  mult:
    description: >
      <p>Multiplies a vector's <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and
      <code>z</code> components.</p>

      <p><code>mult()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.mult(1, 2,
      3)</code>, another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.mult(v2)</code>, or an array

      of numbers, as in <code>v.mult([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If only one value is provided, as in <code>v.mult(2)</code>, then all
      the components

      will be multiplied by 2. If a value isn't provided for a component, it

      won't change. For example, <code>v.mult(4, 5)</code> multiplies
      <code>v.x</code> by, <code>v.y</code> by 5,

      and <code>v.z</code> by 1. Calling <code>mult()</code> with no arguments,
      as in <code>v.mult()</code>, has

      no effect.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>mult()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.mult(v, 2)</code>, returns a new

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't change
      the

      originals.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/mult
  div:
    description: >
      <p>Divides a vector's <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code>
      components.</p>

      <p><code>div()</code> can use separate numbers, as in <code>v.div(1, 2,
      3)</code>, another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object, as in
      <code>v.div(v2)</code>, or an array

      of numbers, as in <code>v.div([1, 2, 3])</code>.</p>

      <p>If only one value is provided, as in <code>v.div(2)</code>, then all
      the components

      will be divided by 2. If a value isn't provided for a component, it

      won't change. For example, <code>v.div(4, 5)</code> divides
      <code>v.x</code> by, <code>v.y</code> by 5,

      and <code>v.z</code> by 1. Calling <code>div()</code> with no arguments,
      as in <code>v.div()</code>, has

      no effect.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>div()</code>, as in <code>p5.Vector.div(v,
      2)</code>, returns a new

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't change
      the

      originals.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/div
  mag:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the magnitude (length) of the vector.</p>

      <p>Use <a href="/reference/p5/mag">mag()</a> to calculate the magnitude of
      a 2D vector

      using components as in <code>mag(x, y)</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/mag
  magSq:
    description: |
      <p>Calculates the magnitude (length) of the vector squared.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/magSq
  dot:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the dot product of two vectors.</p>

      <p>The dot product is a number that describes the overlap between two
      vectors.

      Visually, the dot product can be thought of as the "shadow" one vector

      casts on another. The dot product's magnitude is largest when two vectors

      point in the same or opposite directions. Its magnitude is 0 when two

      vectors form a right angle.</p>

      <p>The version of <code>dot()</code> with one parameter interprets it as
      another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object.</p>

      <p>The version of <code>dot()</code> with multiple parameters interprets
      them as the

      <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code> components of another
      vector.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>dot()</code>, as in <code>p5.Vector.dot(v1,
      v2)</code>, is the same

      as calling <code>v1.dot(v2)</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/dot
  cross:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the cross product of two vectors.</p>

      <p>The cross product is a vector that points straight out of the plane
      created

      by two vectors. The cross product's magnitude is the area of the
      parallelogram

      formed by the original two vectors.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>cross()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.cross(v1, v2)</code>, is the same

      as calling <code>v1.cross(v2)</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/cross
  dist:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the distance between two points represented by vectors.</p>

      <p>A point's coordinates can be represented by the components of a vector

      that extends from the origin to the point.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>dist()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.dist(v1, v2)</code>, is the same

      as calling <code>v1.dist(v2)</code>.</p>

      <p>Use <a href="/reference/p5/dist">dist()</a> to calculate the distance
      between points

      using coordinates as in <code>dist(x1, y1, x2, y2)</code>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/dist
  normalize:
    description: >
      <p>Scales the components of a <a
      href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object so

      that its magnitude is 1.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>normalize()</code>,  as in
      <code>p5.Vector.normalize(v)</code>,

      returns a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and
      doesn't change

      the original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/normalize
  limit:
    description: >
      <p>Limits a vector's magnitude to a maximum value.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>limit()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.limit(v, 5)</code>, returns a

      new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't
      change the

      original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/limit
  setMag:
    description: >
      <p>Sets a vector's magnitude to a given value.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>setMag()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.setMag(v, 10)</code>, returns

      a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and doesn't
      change the

      original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/setMag
  heading:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the angle a 2D vector makes with the positive x-axis.</p>

      <p>By convention, the positive x-axis has an angle of 0. Angles increase
      in

      the clockwise direction.</p>

      <p>If the vector was created with

      <a href="/reference/p5/createVector">createVector()</a>,
      <code>heading()</code> returns angles

      in the units of the current <a
      href="/reference/p5/angleMode">angleMode()</a>.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>heading()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.heading(v)</code>, works the

      same way.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/heading
  setHeading:
    description: >
      <p>Rotates a 2D vector to a specific angle without changing its
      magnitude.</p>

      <p>By convention, the positive x-axis has an angle of 0. Angles increase
      in

      the clockwise direction.</p>

      <p>If the vector was created with

      <a href="/reference/p5/createVector">createVector()</a>,
      <code>setHeading()</code> uses

      the units of the current <a
      href="/reference/p5/angleMode">angleMode()</a>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/setHeading
  rotate:
    description: >
      <p>Rotates a 2D vector by an angle without changing its magnitude.</p>

      <p>By convention, the positive x-axis has an angle of 0. Angles increase
      in

      the clockwise direction.</p>

      <p>If the vector was created with

      <a href="/reference/p5/createVector">createVector()</a>,
      <code>rotate()</code> uses

      the units of the current <a
      href="/reference/p5/angleMode">angleMode()</a>.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>rotate()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.rotate(v, PI)</code>,

      returns a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and
      doesn't change

      the original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/rotate
  angleBetween:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates the angle between two vectors.</p>

      <p>The angles returned are signed, which means that

      <code>v1.angleBetween(v2) === -v2.angleBetween(v1)</code>.</p>

      <p>If the vector was created with

      <a href="/reference/p5/createVector">createVector()</a>,
      <code>angleBetween()</code> returns

      angles in the units of the current

      <a href="/reference/p5/angleMode">angleMode()</a>.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/angleBetween
  lerp:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates new <code>x</code>, <code>y</code>, and <code>z</code>
      components that are proportionally the

      same distance between two vectors.</p>

      <p>The <code>amt</code> parameter is the amount to interpolate between the
      old vector and

      the new vector. 0.0 keeps all components equal to the old vector's, 0.5 is

      halfway between, and 1.0 sets all components equal to the new
      vector's.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>lerp()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.lerp(v0, v1, 0.5)</code>,

      returns a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and
      doesn't change

      the original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/lerp
  slerp:
    description: >
      <p>Calculates a new heading and magnitude that are between two
      vectors.</p>

      <p>The <code>amt</code> parameter is the amount to interpolate between the
      old vector and

      the new vector. 0.0 keeps the heading and magnitude equal to the old

      vector's, 0.5 sets them halfway between, and 1.0 sets the heading and

      magnitude equal to the new vector's.</p>

      <p><code>slerp()</code> differs from <a
      href="/reference/p5.Vector/lerp">lerp()</a> because

      it interpolates magnitude. Calling <code>v0.slerp(v1, 0.5)</code> sets
      <code>v0</code>'s

      magnitude to a value halfway between its original magnitude and
      <code>v1</code>'s.

      Calling <code>v0.lerp(v1, 0.5)</code> makes no such guarantee.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>slerp()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.slerp(v0, v1, 0.5)</code>,

      returns a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and
      doesn't change

      the original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/slerp
  reflect:
    description: >
      <p>Reflects a vector about a line in 2D or a plane in 3D.</p>

      <p>The orientation of the line or plane is described by a normal vector
      that

      points away from the shape.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>reflect()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.reflect(v, n)</code>,

      returns a new <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object and
      doesn't change

      the original.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/reflect
  array:
    description: |
      <p>Returns the vector's components as an array of numbers.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/array
  equals:
    description: >
      <p>Checks whether all the vector's components are equal to another
      vector's.</p>

      <p><code>equals()</code> returns <code>true</code> if the vector's
      components are all the same as another

      vector's and <code>false</code> if not.</p>

      <p>The version of <code>equals()</code> with one parameter interprets it
      as another

      <a href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> object.</p>

      <p>The version of <code>equals()</code> with multiple parameters
      interprets them as the

      components of another vector. Any missing parameters are assigned the
      value

      0.</p>

      <p>The static version of <code>equals()</code>, as in
      <code>p5.Vector.equals(v0, v1)</code>,

      interprets both parameters as <a
      href="/reference/p5/p5.Vector">p5.Vector</a> objects.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/equals
  fromAngle:
    description: |
      <p>Creates a new 2D vector from an angle.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/fromAngle
  fromAngles:
    description: |
      <p>Creates a new 3D vector from a pair of ISO spherical angles.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/fromAngles
  random2D:
    description: |
      <p>Creates a new 2D unit vector with a random heading.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/random2D
  random3D:
    description: |
      <p>Creates a new 3D unit vector with a random heading.</p>
    path: p5.Vector/random3D
properties:
  x:
    description: |
      <p>The x component of the vector</p>
    path: p5.Vector/x
  'y':
    description: |
      <p>The y component of the vector</p>
    path: p5.Vector/y
  z:
    description: |
      <p>The z component of the vector</p>
    path: p5.Vector/z
chainable: false
---


# p5.Vector
