src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.Convolver.mdx, before:

---
title: p5.Convolver
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: |-
  <p>p5.Convolver extends p5.Reverb. It can emulate the sound of real
  physical spaces through a process called <a href="
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convolution_reverb#Real_space_simulation">
  convolution</a>.</p>

  <p>Convolution multiplies any audio input by an "impulse response"
  to simulate the dispersion of sound over time. The impulse response is
  generated from an audio file that you provide. One way to
  generate an impulse response is to pop a balloon in a reverberant space
  and record the echo. Convolution can also be used to experiment with
  sound.</p>

  <p>Use the method <code>createConvolution(path)</code> to instantiate a
  p5.Convolver with a path to your impulse response audio file.</p>
line: 8549
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: path
    description: |
      <p>path to a sound file</p>
    type: String
  - name: callback
    description: |
      <p>function to call when loading succeeds</p>
    type: Function
    optional: true
  - name: errorCallback
    description: |
      <p>function to call if loading fails.
                                         This function will receive an error or
                                         XMLHttpRequest object with information
                                         about what went wrong.</p>
    type: Function
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div><code>
    let cVerb, sound;
    function preload() {
      // We have both MP3 and OGG versions of all sound assets
      soundFormats('ogg', 'mp3');

      // Try replacing 'bx-spring' with other soundfiles like
      // 'concrete-tunnel' 'small-plate' 'drum' 'beatbox'
      cVerb = createConvolver('/assets/bx-spring.mp3');

      // Try replacing 'Damscray_DancingTiger' with
      // 'beat', 'doorbell', lucky_dragons_-_power_melody'
      sound = loadSound('/assets/Damscray_DancingTiger.mp3');
    }

    function setup() {
      let cnv = createCanvas(100, 100);
      cnv.mousePressed(playSound);
      background(220);
      text('tap to play', 20, 20);

      // disconnect from main output...
      sound.disconnect();

      // ...and process with cVerb
      // so that we only hear the convolution
      cVerb.process(sound);
    }

    function playSound() {
      sound.play();
    }
    </code></div>
methods:
  process:
    description: |
      <p>Connect a source to the convolver.</p>
    path: p5.Convolver/process
  addImpulse:
    description: |
      <p>Load and assign a new Impulse Response to the p5.Convolver.
      The impulse is added to the <code>.impulses</code> array. Previous
      impulses can be accessed with the <code>.toggleImpulse(id)</code>
      method.</p>
    path: p5.Convolver/addImpulse
  resetImpulse:
    description: |
      <p>Similar to .addImpulse, except that the <code>.impulses</code>
      Array is reset to save memory. A new <code>.impulses</code>
      array is created with this impulse as the only item.</p>
    path: p5.Convolver/resetImpulse
  toggleImpulse:
    description: |
      <p>If you have used <code>.addImpulse()</code> to add multiple impulses
      to a p5.Convolver, then you can use this method to toggle between
      the items in the <code>.impulses</code> Array. Accepts a parameter
      to identify which impulse you wish to use, identified either by its
      original filename (String) or by its position in the <code>.impulses
      </code> Array (Number).<br/>
      You can access the objects in the .impulses Array directly. Each
      Object has two attributes: an <code>.audioBuffer</code> (type:
      Web Audio <a href="
      http://webaudio.github.io/web-audio-api/#the-audiobuffer-interface">
      AudioBuffer)</a> and a <code>.name</code>, a String that corresponds
      with the original filename.</p>
    path: p5.Convolver/toggleImpulse
chainable: false
---


# p5.Convolver

Commit message:

Ensure that properties exist in class previews

src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.Convolver.mdx, after:

---
title: p5.Convolver
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: |-
  <p>p5.Convolver extends p5.Reverb. It can emulate the sound of real
  physical spaces through a process called <a href="
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convolution_reverb#Real_space_simulation">
  convolution</a>.</p>

  <p>Convolution multiplies any audio input by an "impulse response"
  to simulate the dispersion of sound over time. The impulse response is
  generated from an audio file that you provide. One way to
  generate an impulse response is to pop a balloon in a reverberant space
  and record the echo. Convolution can also be used to experiment with
  sound.</p>

  <p>Use the method <code>createConvolution(path)</code> to instantiate a
  p5.Convolver with a path to your impulse response audio file.</p>
line: 8549
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: path
    description: |
      <p>path to a sound file</p>
    type: String
  - name: callback
    description: |
      <p>function to call when loading succeeds</p>
    type: Function
    optional: true
  - name: errorCallback
    description: |
      <p>function to call if loading fails.
                                         This function will receive an error or
                                         XMLHttpRequest object with information
                                         about what went wrong.</p>
    type: Function
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div><code>
    let cVerb, sound;
    function preload() {
      // We have both MP3 and OGG versions of all sound assets
      soundFormats('ogg', 'mp3');

      // Try replacing 'bx-spring' with other soundfiles like
      // 'concrete-tunnel' 'small-plate' 'drum' 'beatbox'
      cVerb = createConvolver('/assets/bx-spring.mp3');

      // Try replacing 'Damscray_DancingTiger' with
      // 'beat', 'doorbell', lucky_dragons_-_power_melody'
      sound = loadSound('/assets/Damscray_DancingTiger.mp3');
    }

    function setup() {
      let cnv = createCanvas(100, 100);
      cnv.mousePressed(playSound);
      background(220);
      text('tap to play', 20, 20);

      // disconnect from main output...
      sound.disconnect();

      // ...and process with cVerb
      // so that we only hear the convolution
      cVerb.process(sound);
    }

    function playSound() {
      sound.play();
    }
    </code></div>
methods:
  process:
    description: |
      <p>Connect a source to the convolver.</p>
    path: p5.Convolver/process
  addImpulse:
    description: |
      <p>Load and assign a new Impulse Response to the p5.Convolver.
      The impulse is added to the <code>.impulses</code> array. Previous
      impulses can be accessed with the <code>.toggleImpulse(id)</code>
      method.</p>
    path: p5.Convolver/addImpulse
  resetImpulse:
    description: |
      <p>Similar to .addImpulse, except that the <code>.impulses</code>
      Array is reset to save memory. A new <code>.impulses</code>
      array is created with this impulse as the only item.</p>
    path: p5.Convolver/resetImpulse
  toggleImpulse:
    description: |
      <p>If you have used <code>.addImpulse()</code> to add multiple impulses
      to a p5.Convolver, then you can use this method to toggle between
      the items in the <code>.impulses</code> Array. Accepts a parameter
      to identify which impulse you wish to use, identified either by its
      original filename (String) or by its position in the <code>.impulses
      </code> Array (Number).<br/>
      You can access the objects in the .impulses Array directly. Each
      Object has two attributes: an <code>.audioBuffer</code> (type:
      Web Audio <a href="
      http://webaudio.github.io/web-audio-api/#the-audiobuffer-interface">
      AudioBuffer)</a> and a <code>.name</code>, a String that corresponds
      with the original filename.</p>
    path: p5.Convolver/toggleImpulse
properties:
  convolverNode:
    description: |
      <p>Internally, the p5.Convolver uses the a
      <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/webaudio/#ConvolverNode">
      Web Audio Convolver Node</a>.</p>
    path: p5.Convolver/convolverNode
  impulses:
    description: |
      <p>If you load multiple impulse files using the .addImpulse method,
      they will be stored as Objects in this Array. Toggle between them
      with the <code>toggleImpulse(id)</code> method.</p>
    path: p5.Convolver/impulses
chainable: false
---


# p5.Convolver
