src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.Compressor.mdx, before:

---
title: p5.Compressor
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: >
  <p>Compressor is an audio effect class that performs dynamics compression

  on an audio input source. This is a very commonly used technique in music

  and sound production. Compression creates an overall louder, richer,

  and fuller sound by lowering the volume of louds and raising that of softs.

  Compression can be used to avoid clipping (sound distortion due to

  peaks in volume) and is especially useful when many sounds are played

  at once. Compression can be used on indivudal sound sources in addition

  to the main output.</p>

  <p>This class extends <a href="/reference//p5.Effect">p5.Effect</a>.

  Methods <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/amp">amp()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/chain">chain()</a>,

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/drywet">drywet()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/connect">connect()</a>, and

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/disconnect">disconnect()</a> are available.</p>
line: 10036
isConstructor: true
methods:
  process:
    description: |
      <p>Performs the same function as .connect, but also accepts
      optional parameters to set compressor's audioParams</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/process
  set:
    description: |
      <p>Set the paramters of a compressor.</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/set
  attack:
    description: |
      <p>Get current attack or set value w/ time ramp</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/attack
  knee:
    description: |
      <p>Get current knee or set value w/ time ramp</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/knee
  ratio:
    description: |
      <p>Get current ratio or set value w/ time ramp</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/ratio
  threshold:
    description: |
      <p>Get current threshold or set value w/ time ramp</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/threshold
  release:
    description: |
      <p>Get current release or set value w/ time ramp</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/release
  reduction:
    description: |
      <p>Return the current reduction value</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/reduction
chainable: false
---


# p5.Compressor

Commit message:

Ensure that properties exist in class previews

src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.Compressor.mdx, after:

---
title: p5.Compressor
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: >
  <p>Compressor is an audio effect class that performs dynamics compression

  on an audio input source. This is a very commonly used technique in music

  and sound production. Compression creates an overall louder, richer,

  and fuller sound by lowering the volume of louds and raising that of softs.

  Compression can be used to avoid clipping (sound distortion due to

  peaks in volume) and is especially useful when many sounds are played

  at once. Compression can be used on indivudal sound sources in addition

  to the main output.</p>

  <p>This class extends <a href="/reference//p5.Effect">p5.Effect</a>.

  Methods <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/amp">amp()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/chain">chain()</a>,

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/drywet">drywet()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/connect">connect()</a>, and

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/disconnect">disconnect()</a> are available.</p>
line: 10036
isConstructor: true
methods:
  process:
    description: |
      <p>Performs the same function as .connect, but also accepts
      optional parameters to set compressor's audioParams</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/process
  set:
    description: |
      <p>Set the paramters of a compressor.</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/set
  attack:
    description: |
      <p>Get current attack or set value w/ time ramp</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/attack
  knee:
    description: |
      <p>Get current knee or set value w/ time ramp</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/knee
  ratio:
    description: |
      <p>Get current ratio or set value w/ time ramp</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/ratio
  threshold:
    description: |
      <p>Get current threshold or set value w/ time ramp</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/threshold
  release:
    description: |
      <p>Get current release or set value w/ time ramp</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/release
  reduction:
    description: |
      <p>Return the current reduction value</p>
    path: p5.Compressor/reduction
properties:
  compressor:
    description: >
      <p>The p5.Compressor is built with a <a
      href="https://www.w3.org/TR/webaudio/#the-dynamicscompressornode-interface"
      target="_blank" title="W3 spec for Dynamics Compressor Node">Web Audio
      Dynamics Compressor Node
         </a></p>
    path: p5.Compressor/compressor
chainable: false
---


# p5.Compressor
