src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.Distortion.mdx, before:

---
title: p5.Distortion
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: >
  <p>A Distortion effect created with a Waveshaper Node,

  with an approach adapted from

  <a
  href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/22312841/waveshaper-node-in-webaudio-how-to-emulate-distortion">Kevin
  Ennis</a></p>

  <p>This class extends <a href="/reference//p5.Effect">p5.Effect</a>.

  Methods <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/amp">amp()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/chain">chain()</a>,

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/drywet">drywet()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/connect">connect()</a>, and

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/disconnect">disconnect()</a> are available.</p>
line: 10816
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: amount
    description: |
      <p>Unbounded distortion amount.
                                     Normal values range from 0-1.</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
    optdefault: '0.25'
  - name: oversample
    description: |
      <p>'none', '2x', or '4x'.</p>
    type: String
    optional: true
    optdefault: '''none'''
methods:
  process:
    description: >
      <p>Process a sound source, optionally specify amount and oversample
      values.</p>
    path: p5.Distortion/process
  set:
    description: |
      <p>Set the amount and oversample of the waveshaper distortion.</p>
    path: p5.Distortion/set
  getAmount:
    description: |
      <p>Return the distortion amount, typically between 0-1.</p>
    path: p5.Distortion/getAmount
  getOversample:
    description: |
      <p>Return the oversampling.</p>
    path: p5.Distortion/getOversample
chainable: false
---


# p5.Distortion

Commit message:

Ensure that properties exist in class previews

src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.Distortion.mdx, after:

---
title: p5.Distortion
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: >
  <p>A Distortion effect created with a Waveshaper Node,

  with an approach adapted from

  <a
  href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/22312841/waveshaper-node-in-webaudio-how-to-emulate-distortion">Kevin
  Ennis</a></p>

  <p>This class extends <a href="/reference//p5.Effect">p5.Effect</a>.

  Methods <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/amp">amp()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/chain">chain()</a>,

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/drywet">drywet()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/connect">connect()</a>, and

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/disconnect">disconnect()</a> are available.</p>
line: 10816
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: amount
    description: |
      <p>Unbounded distortion amount.
                                     Normal values range from 0-1.</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
    optdefault: '0.25'
  - name: oversample
    description: |
      <p>'none', '2x', or '4x'.</p>
    type: String
    optional: true
    optdefault: '''none'''
methods:
  process:
    description: >
      <p>Process a sound source, optionally specify amount and oversample
      values.</p>
    path: p5.Distortion/process
  set:
    description: |
      <p>Set the amount and oversample of the waveshaper distortion.</p>
    path: p5.Distortion/set
  getAmount:
    description: |
      <p>Return the distortion amount, typically between 0-1.</p>
    path: p5.Distortion/getAmount
  getOversample:
    description: |
      <p>Return the oversampling.</p>
    path: p5.Distortion/getOversample
properties:
  WaveShaperNode:
    description: |
      <p>The p5.Distortion is built with a
      <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/webaudio/#WaveShaperNode">
      Web Audio WaveShaper Node</a>.</p>
    path: p5.Distortion/WaveShaperNode
chainable: false
---


# p5.Distortion
