src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.Delay.mdx, before:

---
title: p5.Delay
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: >
  <p>Delay is an echo effect. It processes an existing sound source,

  and outputs a delayed version of that sound. The p5.Delay can

  produce different effects depending on the delayTime, feedback,

  filter, and type. In the example below, a feedback of 0.5 (the

  default value) will produce a looping delay that decreases in

  volume by 50% each repeat. A filter will cut out the high

  frequencies so that the delay does not sound as piercing as the

  original source.</p>

  <p>This class extends <a href="/reference//p5.Effect">p5.Effect</a>.

  Methods <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/amp">amp()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/chain">chain()</a>,

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/drywet">drywet()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/connect">connect()</a>, and

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/disconnect">disconnect()</a> are available.</p>
line: 7926
isConstructor: true
example:
  - |-

    <div><code>
    let osc;

    function setup() {
      let cnv = createCanvas(100, 100);
      background(220);
      textAlign(CENTER);
      text('tap to play', width/2, height/2);

      osc = new p5.Oscillator('square');
      osc.amp(0.5);
      delay = new p5.Delay();

      // delay.process() accepts 4 parameters:
      // source, delayTime (in seconds), feedback, filter frequency
      delay.process(osc, 0.12, .7, 2300);

      cnv.mousePressed(oscStart);
    }

    function oscStart() {
      osc.start();
    }

    function mouseReleased() {
      osc.stop();
    }
    </code></div>
methods:
  process:
    description: |
      <p>Add delay to an audio signal according to a set
      of delay parameters.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/process
  delayTime:
    description: |
      <p>Set the delay (echo) time, in seconds. Usually this value will be
      a floating point number between 0.0 and 1.0.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/delayTime
  feedback:
    description: >
      <p>Feedback occurs when Delay sends its signal back through its input

      in a loop. The feedback amount determines how much signal to send each

      time through the loop. A feedback greater than 1.0 is not desirable
      because

      it will increase the overall output each time through the loop,

      creating an infinite feedback loop. The default value is 0.5</p>
    path: p5.Delay/feedback
  filter:
    description: |
      <p>Set a lowpass filter frequency for the delay. A lowpass filter
      will cut off any frequencies higher than the filter frequency.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/filter
  setType:
    description: |
      <p>Choose a preset type of delay. 'pingPong' bounces the signal
      from the left to the right channel to produce a stereo effect.
      Any other parameter will revert to the default delay setting.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/setType
  amp:
    description: |
      <p>Set the output level of the delay effect.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/amp
  connect:
    description: |
      <p>Send output to a p5.sound or web audio object</p>
    path: p5.Delay/connect
  disconnect:
    description: |
      <p>Disconnect all output.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/disconnect
chainable: false
---


# p5.Delay

Commit message:

Ensure that properties exist in class previews

src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.Delay.mdx, after:

---
title: p5.Delay
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: >
  <p>Delay is an echo effect. It processes an existing sound source,

  and outputs a delayed version of that sound. The p5.Delay can

  produce different effects depending on the delayTime, feedback,

  filter, and type. In the example below, a feedback of 0.5 (the

  default value) will produce a looping delay that decreases in

  volume by 50% each repeat. A filter will cut out the high

  frequencies so that the delay does not sound as piercing as the

  original source.</p>

  <p>This class extends <a href="/reference//p5.Effect">p5.Effect</a>.

  Methods <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/amp">amp()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/chain">chain()</a>,

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/drywet">drywet()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/connect">connect()</a>, and

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/disconnect">disconnect()</a> are available.</p>
line: 7926
isConstructor: true
example:
  - |-

    <div><code>
    let osc;

    function setup() {
      let cnv = createCanvas(100, 100);
      background(220);
      textAlign(CENTER);
      text('tap to play', width/2, height/2);

      osc = new p5.Oscillator('square');
      osc.amp(0.5);
      delay = new p5.Delay();

      // delay.process() accepts 4 parameters:
      // source, delayTime (in seconds), feedback, filter frequency
      delay.process(osc, 0.12, .7, 2300);

      cnv.mousePressed(oscStart);
    }

    function oscStart() {
      osc.start();
    }

    function mouseReleased() {
      osc.stop();
    }
    </code></div>
methods:
  process:
    description: |
      <p>Add delay to an audio signal according to a set
      of delay parameters.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/process
  delayTime:
    description: |
      <p>Set the delay (echo) time, in seconds. Usually this value will be
      a floating point number between 0.0 and 1.0.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/delayTime
  feedback:
    description: >
      <p>Feedback occurs when Delay sends its signal back through its input

      in a loop. The feedback amount determines how much signal to send each

      time through the loop. A feedback greater than 1.0 is not desirable
      because

      it will increase the overall output each time through the loop,

      creating an infinite feedback loop. The default value is 0.5</p>
    path: p5.Delay/feedback
  filter:
    description: |
      <p>Set a lowpass filter frequency for the delay. A lowpass filter
      will cut off any frequencies higher than the filter frequency.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/filter
  setType:
    description: |
      <p>Choose a preset type of delay. 'pingPong' bounces the signal
      from the left to the right channel to produce a stereo effect.
      Any other parameter will revert to the default delay setting.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/setType
  amp:
    description: |
      <p>Set the output level of the delay effect.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/amp
  connect:
    description: |
      <p>Send output to a p5.sound or web audio object</p>
    path: p5.Delay/connect
  disconnect:
    description: |
      <p>Disconnect all output.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/disconnect
properties:
  leftDelay:
    description: |
      <p>The p5.Delay is built with two
      <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/webaudio/#DelayNode">
      Web Audio Delay Nodes</a>, one for each stereo channel.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/leftDelay
  rightDelay:
    description: |
      <p>The p5.Delay is built with two
      <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/webaudio/#DelayNode">
      Web Audio Delay Nodes</a>, one for each stereo channel.</p>
    path: p5.Delay/rightDelay
chainable: false
---


# p5.Delay
