src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.EQ.mdx, before:

---
title: p5.EQ
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: >
  <p>p5.EQ is an audio effect that performs the function of a multiband

  audio equalizer. Equalization is used to adjust the balance of

  frequency compoenents of an audio signal. This process is commonly used

  in sound production and recording to change the waveform before it reaches

  a sound output device. EQ can also be used as an audio effect to create

  interesting distortions by filtering out parts of the spectrum. p5.EQ is

  built using a chain of Web Audio Biquad Filter Nodes and can be

  instantiated with 3 or 8 bands. Bands can be added or removed from

  the EQ by directly modifying p5.EQ.bands (the array that stores filters).</p>

  <p>This class extends <a href="/reference//p5.Effect">p5.Effect</a>.

  Methods <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/amp">amp()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/chain">chain()</a>,

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/drywet">drywet()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/connect">connect()</a>, and

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/disconnect">disconnect()</a> are available.</p>
line: 7105
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: _eqsize
    description: |
      <p>Constructor will accept 3 or 8, defaults to 3</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div><code>
    let eq, soundFile
    let eqBandIndex = 0;
    let eqBandNames = ['lows', 'mids', 'highs'];

    function preload() {
      soundFormats('mp3', 'ogg');
      soundFile = loadSound('/assets/beat');
    }

    function setup() {
      let cnv = createCanvas(100, 100);
      cnv.mousePressed(toggleSound);

      eq = new p5.EQ(eqBandNames.length);
      soundFile.disconnect();
      eq.process(soundFile);
    }

    function draw() {
      background(30);
      noStroke();
      fill(255);
      textAlign(CENTER);
      text('filtering ', 50, 25);

      fill(255, 40, 255);
      textSize(26);
      text(eqBandNames[eqBandIndex], 50, 55);

      fill(255);
      textSize(9);

      if (!soundFile.isPlaying()) {
        text('tap to play', 50, 80);
      } else {
        text('tap to filter next band', 50, 80)
      }
    }

    function toggleSound() {
      if (!soundFile.isPlaying()) {
        soundFile.play();
      } else {
        eqBandIndex = (eqBandIndex + 1) % eq.bands.length;
      }

      for (let i = 0; i < eq.bands.length; i++) {
        eq.bands[i].gain(0);
      }
      // filter the band we want to filter
      eq.bands[eqBandIndex].gain(-40);
    }
    </code></div>
methods:
  process:
    description: |
      <p>Process an input by connecting it to the EQ</p>
    path: p5.EQ/process
chainable: false
---


# p5.EQ

Commit message:

Ensure that properties exist in class previews

src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.EQ.mdx, after:

---
title: p5.EQ
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: >
  <p>p5.EQ is an audio effect that performs the function of a multiband

  audio equalizer. Equalization is used to adjust the balance of

  frequency compoenents of an audio signal. This process is commonly used

  in sound production and recording to change the waveform before it reaches

  a sound output device. EQ can also be used as an audio effect to create

  interesting distortions by filtering out parts of the spectrum. p5.EQ is

  built using a chain of Web Audio Biquad Filter Nodes and can be

  instantiated with 3 or 8 bands. Bands can be added or removed from

  the EQ by directly modifying p5.EQ.bands (the array that stores filters).</p>

  <p>This class extends <a href="/reference//p5.Effect">p5.Effect</a>.

  Methods <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/amp">amp()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/chain">chain()</a>,

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/drywet">drywet()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/connect">connect()</a>, and

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/disconnect">disconnect()</a> are available.</p>
line: 7105
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: _eqsize
    description: |
      <p>Constructor will accept 3 or 8, defaults to 3</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div><code>
    let eq, soundFile
    let eqBandIndex = 0;
    let eqBandNames = ['lows', 'mids', 'highs'];

    function preload() {
      soundFormats('mp3', 'ogg');
      soundFile = loadSound('/assets/beat');
    }

    function setup() {
      let cnv = createCanvas(100, 100);
      cnv.mousePressed(toggleSound);

      eq = new p5.EQ(eqBandNames.length);
      soundFile.disconnect();
      eq.process(soundFile);
    }

    function draw() {
      background(30);
      noStroke();
      fill(255);
      textAlign(CENTER);
      text('filtering ', 50, 25);

      fill(255, 40, 255);
      textSize(26);
      text(eqBandNames[eqBandIndex], 50, 55);

      fill(255);
      textSize(9);

      if (!soundFile.isPlaying()) {
        text('tap to play', 50, 80);
      } else {
        text('tap to filter next band', 50, 80)
      }
    }

    function toggleSound() {
      if (!soundFile.isPlaying()) {
        soundFile.play();
      } else {
        eqBandIndex = (eqBandIndex + 1) % eq.bands.length;
      }

      for (let i = 0; i < eq.bands.length; i++) {
        eq.bands[i].gain(0);
      }
      // filter the band we want to filter
      eq.bands[eqBandIndex].gain(-40);
    }
    </code></div>
methods:
  process:
    description: |
      <p>Process an input by connecting it to the EQ</p>
    path: p5.EQ/process
properties:
  bands:
    description: >
      <p>The p5.EQ is built with abstracted p5.Filter objects.

      To modify any bands, use methods of the <a href="/reference//p5.Filter"
      title="p5.Filter reference">

      p5.Filter</a> API, especially <code>gain</code> and <code>freq</code>.

      Bands are stored in an array, with indices 0 - 3, or 0 - 7</p>
    path: p5.EQ/bands
chainable: false
---


# p5.EQ
