src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.Filter.mdx, before:

---
title: p5.Filter
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: >
  <p>A p5.Filter uses a Web Audio Biquad Filter to filter

  the frequency response of an input source. Subclasses

  include:</p>

  <a href="/reference//p5.LowPass"><code>p5.LowPass</code></a>:

  Allows frequencies below the cutoff frequency to pass through,

  and attenuates frequencies above the cutoff.<br/>

  <a href="/reference//p5.HighPass"><code>p5.HighPass</code></a>:

  The opposite of a lowpass filter. <br/>

  <a href="/reference//p5.BandPass"><code>p5.BandPass</code></a>:

  Allows a range of frequencies to pass through and attenuates

  the frequencies below and above this frequency range.<br/>


  <p>The <code>.res()</code> method controls either width of the

  bandpass, or resonance of the low/highpass cutoff frequency.</p>

  <p>This class extends <a href="/reference//p5.Effect">p5.Effect</a>.

  Methods <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/amp">amp()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/chain">chain()</a>,

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/drywet">drywet()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/connect">connect()</a>, and

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/disconnect">disconnect()</a> are available.</p>
line: 6628
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: type
    description: |
      <p>'lowpass' (default), 'highpass', 'bandpass'</p>
    type: String
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div><code>
    let fft, noise, filter;

    function setup() {
      let cnv = createCanvas(100,100);
      cnv.mousePressed(makeNoise);
      fill(255, 0, 255);

      filter = new p5.BandPass();
      noise = new p5.Noise();
      noise.disconnect();
      noise.connect(filter);

      fft = new p5.FFT();
    }

    function draw() {
      background(220);

      // set the BandPass frequency based on mouseX
      let freq = map(mouseX, 0, width, 20, 10000);
      freq = constrain(freq, 0, 22050);
      filter.freq(freq);
      // give the filter a narrow band (lower res = wider bandpass)
      filter.res(50);

      // draw filtered spectrum
      let spectrum = fft.analyze();
      noStroke();
      for (let i = 0; i < spectrum.length; i++) {
        let x = map(i, 0, spectrum.length, 0, width);
        let h = -height + map(spectrum[i], 0, 255, height, 0);
        rect(x, height, width/spectrum.length, h);
      }
      if (!noise.started) {
        text('tap here and drag to change frequency', 10, 20, width - 20);
      } else {
        text('Frequency: ' + round(freq)+'Hz', 20, 20, width - 20);
      }
    }

    function makeNoise() {
      // see also: `userStartAudio()`
      noise.start();
      noise.amp(0.5, 0.2);
    }

    function mouseReleased() {
      noise.amp(0, 0.2);
    }

    </code></div>
methods:
  process:
    description: |
      <p>Filter an audio signal according to a set
      of filter parameters.</p>
    path: p5.Filter/process
  set:
    description: |
      <p>Set the frequency and the resonance of the filter.</p>
    path: p5.Filter/set
  freq:
    description: |
      <p>Set the filter frequency, in Hz, from 10 to 22050 (the range of
      human hearing, although in reality most people hear in a narrower
      range).</p>
    path: p5.Filter/freq
  res:
    description: |
      <p>Controls either width of a bandpass frequency,
      or the resonance of a low/highpass cutoff frequency.</p>
    path: p5.Filter/res
  gain:
    description: |
      <p>Controls the gain attribute of a Biquad Filter.
      This is distinctly different from .amp() which is inherited from p5.Effect
      .amp() controls the volume via the output gain node
      p5.Filter.gain() controls the gain parameter of a Biquad Filter node.</p>
    path: p5.Filter/gain
  toggle:
    description: |
      <p>Toggle function. Switches between the specified type and allpass</p>
    path: p5.Filter/toggle
  setType:
    description: |
      <p>Set the type of a p5.Filter. Possible types include:
      "lowpass" (default), "highpass", "bandpass",
      "lowshelf", "highshelf", "peaking", "notch",
      "allpass".</p>
    path: p5.Filter/setType
chainable: false
---


# p5.Filter

Commit message:

Ensure that properties exist in class previews

src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.Filter.mdx, after:

---
title: p5.Filter
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: >
  <p>A p5.Filter uses a Web Audio Biquad Filter to filter

  the frequency response of an input source. Subclasses

  include:</p>

  <a href="/reference//p5.LowPass"><code>p5.LowPass</code></a>:

  Allows frequencies below the cutoff frequency to pass through,

  and attenuates frequencies above the cutoff.<br/>

  <a href="/reference//p5.HighPass"><code>p5.HighPass</code></a>:

  The opposite of a lowpass filter. <br/>

  <a href="/reference//p5.BandPass"><code>p5.BandPass</code></a>:

  Allows a range of frequencies to pass through and attenuates

  the frequencies below and above this frequency range.<br/>


  <p>The <code>.res()</code> method controls either width of the

  bandpass, or resonance of the low/highpass cutoff frequency.</p>

  <p>This class extends <a href="/reference//p5.Effect">p5.Effect</a>.

  Methods <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/amp">amp()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/chain">chain()</a>,

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/drywet">drywet()</a>, <a
  href="/reference//p5.Effect/connect">connect()</a>, and

  <a href="/reference//p5.Effect/disconnect">disconnect()</a> are available.</p>
line: 6628
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: type
    description: |
      <p>'lowpass' (default), 'highpass', 'bandpass'</p>
    type: String
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div><code>
    let fft, noise, filter;

    function setup() {
      let cnv = createCanvas(100,100);
      cnv.mousePressed(makeNoise);
      fill(255, 0, 255);

      filter = new p5.BandPass();
      noise = new p5.Noise();
      noise.disconnect();
      noise.connect(filter);

      fft = new p5.FFT();
    }

    function draw() {
      background(220);

      // set the BandPass frequency based on mouseX
      let freq = map(mouseX, 0, width, 20, 10000);
      freq = constrain(freq, 0, 22050);
      filter.freq(freq);
      // give the filter a narrow band (lower res = wider bandpass)
      filter.res(50);

      // draw filtered spectrum
      let spectrum = fft.analyze();
      noStroke();
      for (let i = 0; i < spectrum.length; i++) {
        let x = map(i, 0, spectrum.length, 0, width);
        let h = -height + map(spectrum[i], 0, 255, height, 0);
        rect(x, height, width/spectrum.length, h);
      }
      if (!noise.started) {
        text('tap here and drag to change frequency', 10, 20, width - 20);
      } else {
        text('Frequency: ' + round(freq)+'Hz', 20, 20, width - 20);
      }
    }

    function makeNoise() {
      // see also: `userStartAudio()`
      noise.start();
      noise.amp(0.5, 0.2);
    }

    function mouseReleased() {
      noise.amp(0, 0.2);
    }

    </code></div>
methods:
  process:
    description: |
      <p>Filter an audio signal according to a set
      of filter parameters.</p>
    path: p5.Filter/process
  set:
    description: |
      <p>Set the frequency and the resonance of the filter.</p>
    path: p5.Filter/set
  freq:
    description: |
      <p>Set the filter frequency, in Hz, from 10 to 22050 (the range of
      human hearing, although in reality most people hear in a narrower
      range).</p>
    path: p5.Filter/freq
  res:
    description: |
      <p>Controls either width of a bandpass frequency,
      or the resonance of a low/highpass cutoff frequency.</p>
    path: p5.Filter/res
  gain:
    description: |
      <p>Controls the gain attribute of a Biquad Filter.
      This is distinctly different from .amp() which is inherited from p5.Effect
      .amp() controls the volume via the output gain node
      p5.Filter.gain() controls the gain parameter of a Biquad Filter node.</p>
    path: p5.Filter/gain
  toggle:
    description: |
      <p>Toggle function. Switches between the specified type and allpass</p>
    path: p5.Filter/toggle
  setType:
    description: |
      <p>Set the type of a p5.Filter. Possible types include:
      "lowpass" (default), "highpass", "bandpass",
      "lowshelf", "highshelf", "peaking", "notch",
      "allpass".</p>
    path: p5.Filter/setType
properties:
  biquadFilter:
    description: |
      <p>The p5.Filter is built with a
      <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/webaudio/#BiquadFilterNode">
      Web Audio BiquadFilter Node</a>.</p>
    path: p5.Filter/biquadFilter
chainable: false
---


# p5.Filter
