src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.PolySynth.mdx, before:

---
title: p5.PolySynth
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: |
  <p>An AudioVoice is used as a single voice for sound synthesis.
  The PolySynth class holds an array of AudioVoice, and deals
  with voices allocations, with setting notes to be played, and
  parameters to be set.</p>
line: 11691
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: synthVoice
    description: |
      <p>A monophonic synth voice inheriting
                                     the AudioVoice class. Defaults to p5.MonoSynth</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
  - name: maxVoices
    description: |
      <p>Number of voices, defaults to 8;</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div><code>
    let polySynth;

    function setup() {
      let cnv = createCanvas(100, 100);
      cnv.mousePressed(playSynth);
      background(220);
      text('click to play', 20, 20);

      polySynth = new p5.PolySynth();
    }

    function playSynth() {
      userStartAudio();

      // note duration (in seconds)
      let dur = 1.5;

      // time from now (in seconds)
      let time = 0;

      // velocity (volume, from 0 to 1)
      let vel = 0.1;

      // notes can overlap with each other
      polySynth.play('G2', vel, 0, dur);
      polySynth.play('C3', vel, time += 1/3, dur);
      polySynth.play('G3', vel, time += 1/3, dur);
    }
    </code></div>
methods:
  play:
    description: >
      <p>Play a note by triggering noteAttack and noteRelease with sustain
      time</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/play
  noteADSR:
    description: >
      <p>noteADSR sets the envelope for a specific note that has just been
      triggered.

      Using this method modifies the envelope of whichever audiovoice is being
      used

      to play the desired note. The envelope should be reset before noteRelease
      is called

      in order to prevent the modified envelope from being used on other
      notes.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/noteADSR
  setADSR:
    description: >
      <p>Set the PolySynths global envelope. This method modifies the envelopes
      of each

      monosynth so that all notes are played with this envelope.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/setADSR
  noteAttack:
    description: |
      <p>Trigger the Attack, and Decay portion of a MonoSynth.
      Similar to holding down a key on a piano, but it will
      hold the sustain level until you let go.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/noteAttack
  noteRelease:
    description: |
      <p>Trigger the Release of an AudioVoice note. This is similar to releasing
      the key on a piano and letting the sound fade according to the
      release level and release time.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/noteRelease
  connect:
    description: |
      <p>Connect to a p5.sound / Web Audio object.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/connect
  disconnect:
    description: |
      <p>Disconnect all outputs</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/disconnect
  dispose:
    description: |
      <p>Get rid of the MonoSynth and free up its resources / memory.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/dispose
chainable: false
---


# p5.PolySynth

Commit message:

Ensure that properties exist in class previews

src/content/reference/en/p5.sound/p5.PolySynth.mdx, after:

---
title: p5.PolySynth
module: p5.sound
submodule: p5.sound
file: lib/addons/p5.sound.js
description: |
  <p>An AudioVoice is used as a single voice for sound synthesis.
  The PolySynth class holds an array of AudioVoice, and deals
  with voices allocations, with setting notes to be played, and
  parameters to be set.</p>
line: 11691
isConstructor: true
params:
  - name: synthVoice
    description: |
      <p>A monophonic synth voice inheriting
                                     the AudioVoice class. Defaults to p5.MonoSynth</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
  - name: maxVoices
    description: |
      <p>Number of voices, defaults to 8;</p>
    type: Number
    optional: true
example:
  - |-

    <div><code>
    let polySynth;

    function setup() {
      let cnv = createCanvas(100, 100);
      cnv.mousePressed(playSynth);
      background(220);
      text('click to play', 20, 20);

      polySynth = new p5.PolySynth();
    }

    function playSynth() {
      userStartAudio();

      // note duration (in seconds)
      let dur = 1.5;

      // time from now (in seconds)
      let time = 0;

      // velocity (volume, from 0 to 1)
      let vel = 0.1;

      // notes can overlap with each other
      polySynth.play('G2', vel, 0, dur);
      polySynth.play('C3', vel, time += 1/3, dur);
      polySynth.play('G3', vel, time += 1/3, dur);
    }
    </code></div>
methods:
  play:
    description: >
      <p>Play a note by triggering noteAttack and noteRelease with sustain
      time</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/play
  noteADSR:
    description: >
      <p>noteADSR sets the envelope for a specific note that has just been
      triggered.

      Using this method modifies the envelope of whichever audiovoice is being
      used

      to play the desired note. The envelope should be reset before noteRelease
      is called

      in order to prevent the modified envelope from being used on other
      notes.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/noteADSR
  setADSR:
    description: >
      <p>Set the PolySynths global envelope. This method modifies the envelopes
      of each

      monosynth so that all notes are played with this envelope.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/setADSR
  noteAttack:
    description: |
      <p>Trigger the Attack, and Decay portion of a MonoSynth.
      Similar to holding down a key on a piano, but it will
      hold the sustain level until you let go.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/noteAttack
  noteRelease:
    description: |
      <p>Trigger the Release of an AudioVoice note. This is similar to releasing
      the key on a piano and letting the sound fade according to the
      release level and release time.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/noteRelease
  connect:
    description: |
      <p>Connect to a p5.sound / Web Audio object.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/connect
  disconnect:
    description: |
      <p>Disconnect all outputs</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/disconnect
  dispose:
    description: |
      <p>Get rid of the MonoSynth and free up its resources / memory.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/dispose
properties:
  notes:
    description: >
      <p>An object that holds information about which notes have been played and

      which notes are currently being played. New notes are added as keys

      on the fly. While a note has been attacked, but not released, the value of
      the

      key is the audiovoice which is generating that note. When notes are
      released,

      the value of the key becomes undefined.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/notes
  polyvalue:
    description: |
      <p>A PolySynth must have at least 1 voice, defaults to 8</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/polyvalue
  AudioVoice:
    description: |
      <p>Monosynth that generates the sound for each note that is triggered. The
      p5.PolySynth defaults to using the p5.MonoSynth as its voice.</p>
    path: p5.PolySynth/AudioVoice
chainable: false
---


# p5.PolySynth
