src/content/examples/en/07_Repetition/00_Color_Interpolation/description.mdx, before:

---
featuredImage: "../../../images/featured/07_Repetition-00_Color_Interpolation-thumbnail.png"
title: Color Interpolation
oneLineDescription: Fade between two colors.
---

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Interpolation" target="_blank">Interpolation</a>
calculates a value between two other values. For example, the number 5 is
halfway between 0 and 10. Different types of interpolation use
different rates of change between values. Linear interpolation,
abbreviated as lerp, uses a constant rate of change. The
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/lerp" target="_blank">lerp()</a>
function linearly interpolates between two numbers. The
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/lerpColor" target="_blank">lerpColor()</a>
function, demonstrated here, linearly interpolates between two colors.
In this example, the stripeCount variable adjusts how many horizontal
stripes appear. Setting the value to a higher number will look less
like individual stripes and more like a gradient.

Commit message:

Add attribution placeholders in example descriptions

src/content/examples/en/07_Repetition/00_Color_Interpolation/description.mdx, after:

---
featuredImage: "../../../images/featured/07_Repetition-00_Color_Interpolation-thumbnail.png"
title: Color Interpolation
oneLineDescription: Fade between two colors.
---

<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Interpolation" target="_blank">Interpolation</a>
calculates a value between two other values. For example, the number 5 is
halfway between 0 and 10. Different types of interpolation use
different rates of change between values. Linear interpolation,
abbreviated as lerp, uses a constant rate of change. The
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/lerp" target="_blank">lerp()</a>
function linearly interpolates between two numbers. The
<a href="https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/lerpColor" target="_blank">lerpColor()</a>
function, demonstrated here, linearly interpolates between two colors.
In this example, the stripeCount variable adjusts how many horizontal
stripes appear. Setting the value to a higher number will look less
like individual stripes and more like a gradient.

Contributors from the p5 community wrote this example. Soon their names will 
appear here. In the meantime, you can 
<a 
href="https://github.com/processing/p5.js-website/blame/d6b28924185dac5e25c39cd0fc2fc4a1f6392883/src/content/examples/en/07_Repetition/00_Color_Interpolation/code.js" target="_blank"
>see their contributions in the source code</a>.
